Question: I woke up this morning feeling the whole room is spinning when i was sitting down. I went to the bathroom walking unsteadily, as i tried to focus i feel nauseous. I try to vomit but it wont come out.. After taking panadol and sleep for few hours, i still feel the same.. By the way, if i lay down or sit down, my head do not spin, only when i want to move around then i feel the whole world is spinning.. And it is normal stomach discomfort at the same time? Earlier after i relieved myself, the spinning lessen so i am not sure whether its connected or coincidences.. Thank you doc!

Answer: Hi, Thank you for posting your query. The most likely cause for your symptoms is benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), a type of peripheral vertigo. In this condition, the most common symptom is dizziness or giddiness, which is made worse with movements. Accompanying nausea and vomiting are common. The condition is due to problem in the ear, and improves in a few days on own. Betahistine tablets would help relieve your symptoms. Doing vestibular rehabilitation or adaptation exercises would prevent the recurrence of these symptoms. An ENT evaluation would also help. I hope it helps. Best wishes, Chat Doctor.


Question: My baby has been pooing 5-6 times a day for a week. In the last few days it has increased to 7 and they are very watery with green stringy bits in them. He does not seem unwell i.e no temperature and still eating. He now has a very bad nappy rash from the pooing ...help!

Answer: Hi... Thank you for consulting in Chat Doctor. It seems your kid is having viral diarrhea. Once it starts it will take 5-7 days to completely get better. Unless the kids having low urine output or very dull or excessively sleepy or blood in motion or green bilious vomiting...you need not worry. There is no need to use antibiotics unless there is blood in the motion. Antibiotics might worsen if unnecessarily used causing antibiotic associated diarrhea. I suggest you use zinc supplements (Z&D Chat Doctor.


Question: Hello, My husband is taking Oxycodone due to a broken leg/surgery. He has been taking this pain medication for one month. We are trying to conceive our second baby. Will this medication afect the fetus? Or the health of the baby? Or can it bring birth defects? Thank you.

Answer: Hello, and I hope I can help you today.First, there is no medication that can be taken by the father that has any way to get into your system or a baby if you conceive.  Medications can only affect a fetus if you take it while pregnant. The only issue is that certain medications may decrease a men sperm count and affect fertility, however pain medications like Oxycodone do not have this effect. So there is no reason for you to worry about conceiving while taking this medication.  The best way you can prepare for a healthy pregnancy is to follow a well-balanced diet, limit alcohol consumption and avoid cigarette smoke, and take a daily prenatal vitamin or folic acid, as folic acid supplements in early pregnancy helps to prevent certain types of birth defects. I hope this answers your question and best wishes for your upcoming pregnancy,


Question: lump under left nipple and stomach pain (male) Hi,I have recently noticed a few weeks ago a lump under my nipple, it hurts to touch and is about the size of a quarter. Also I have bern experiencing stomach pains that prevent me from eating. I immediatly feel full and have extreme pain. Please help

Answer: HI. You have two different problems. The lump under the nipple should be removed, biopsied. This will help you to get rid of the disease, and you get a diagnosis. Second problem looks a bit serious one


Question: I have a 5 month old baby who is very congested with a terrible cough. Its rattly/raspy and croupy sounding cough. She started choking on her coughs and the mucous that has come up. She also has a fever and runny nose. Should i take her to urgent care?

Answer: Thank you for using Chat Doctor. I would suggest that you see your doctor. Your baby maybe having bronchiolitis which is a lung infection common to your kids age. It is commonly caused by a virus. Albuterol via nebulization should be utilized in order to alleviate the wheezing and also help with the congestion. A decongestant can also be used for the colds. Also, it would also advise doing a chest X-ray in order to rule out other diseases (ex. pneumonia)sincerely, Mark RosarioGeneral pediatrics/Pediatric Pulmonology


Question: I am F 38 in good shape work out (do triathlons) regular but have had back pain from different reasons throughout my life now I every so often wake up with severe lower back, hip pain for no reason. today the pain is almost taking my breathe away when i move. It is a dull pain when i am just lying down but the moment I make any sort of movement I have sharp and sometimes shooting pain down my legs.

Answer: Hi, From history it seems that you might be having degenerative changes in your lower back spines giving pinched nerve pressure. There might be having osteomalacia or osteoporosis as well. Go for x-ray lumbosacral region for osteoarthritis. Physiotherapy like back extension exercises will be much helpful. Take B1, B6, B!2 shots or medicine. Take calcium, vitamin A and D supplements. Ok and take care.


Question: sir, MY uncle has ILD-Interstitial Lung disease.from my research over google i found that the cause is important to be known. the cause wat i feel is due to breakage of acid bottle in bathroom which caused lot of smoke and that time he wasnot able to be normal for 15-20 minutes. then he was normal .may be that would have been the reason for this ILD. Please suggest wat we should do

Answer: Thanks for your question on Chat Doctor. I can understand your concern. OLD (interstitial lung disease) can not be caused by single exposure of any chemical. Chronic exposure (for years) of chemicals can cause OLD. It is not possible to find out cause for each and every OLD patient. Some patients can develop OLD just because of aging (old age). So your uncle is not having OLD due to breakage of acid bottle. He might be having age related OLD. Better to start Perfinodone and N acetyl cysteine (NAC) for OLD rather than searching for cause. Hope I have solved your query. I will be happy to help you further. Wishing good health to your uncle. Thanks.


Question: my husband was working on a project in the house and all of a sudden a bump about the size of a half dollar appeard on his left leg inside below the knee. He is 69 years old and had triple by pass surgery 7 years ago. It stung when it first happened. Doesn t hurt now. He is seated with his leg ellevated. Is this an emergency?

Answer: Hello. It could be a blood collection due to minor injury or a vein rupture which is also common at this age. It is not an emergency, but you should apply compression bandage and warm compresses if six hours have past. Furthermore, it should get relieved over the next few days but if it continues to increase or persist then you should see a Doctor who can examine the patient. Take care.  Chat Doctor.


Question: hi my nine year old son had a cough and flu symptons three months ago and the chesty sounding cough and green phlegm still remains. it did seem to get better but never totally went and has now picked up again...he has only ever had antibiotics once in his live which suggests he his generally fitand well and active...never short of breath or weezy...so why would this be....

Answer: Hi, If the symptoms persist that long this suggests the presence of an allergic element. To treat that kind of allergy you can give him an over the counter antihistamines once daily before going to bed. A cough suppressant as dextromethorphan and an expectorant as Murine will help reduce the cough. Make sure he Chat Doctor.  If the green phlegm persists he might require an antibiotic. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.


Question: gyno problemsfor the past few months, I have been having issues with my vagina. there always seems to be something wrong with me. its either an infection or a yeast infection from the medication used to treat the previous infection or a herpes outbreak as a result of a yeast infection. most recently, I had a uti. I was treated for that and everything seemed fine, until after I finished the medication. it still hurt when I had sex and still is uncomfortable to pee. I dont know whats going on and this has been going on for months.

Answer: Dear Friend. Welcome to Chat Doctor. I am Chat Doctor. I understand your concern. Recurring yeast / final infection occur due to


Question: I have found that I have an allergy to leotensin. They have taken me off of everything....I found in the information that one side effect if the red skin lensions with a purple center. I was looking to see if there was anything I could do to help the spots go away. I am a dental hygienist and I will be working the next two days. Is there anything that would cover them, so the patients would not be aware???

Answer: Cellophane You for contacting Chat Doctor. Allergic reaction takes some time to settle. In the meanwhile you can cover it over the body by wearing appropriate long clothes which can cover most of the body to hide it. If itching occurs then you can take cetirizine once daily to prevent itching. Hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow-up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us. Wishing you good health.


Question: Hi my name is Wendy I ve been having an issue for the last couple of months or so I been having severe pain in my lower back around the front into the groin area and its radiating down my thigh and so on I am currently a cancer patient nobody seems to be able to tell me what it could be the pain is so bad that it brings tears to my eyes would you possibly know what it could be or might be

Answer: HelloThanks for query. You have not mentioned in your query details regarding cancer you are suffering from. The pain in back radiating down to thigh can be mostly due to metastasis in the spines or in to lymph nodes, You need to consult your treating oncologist and get evaluated by doing C. T scan of abdomen and pelvis and Bone scan. Further treatment will depend upon result of these tests and final diagnosis. Chat Doctor.


Question: hye, My aunt is having shortness of breath and she is on vent now. Her breast showed some kind of infection that apparently turned out to have black blisters. I could she those spreading. When we went for lungs x-ray doctor said she has accumulation of water in her lungs

Answer: Thanks for your question on Chat Doctor. I can understand your aunts situation and problem. By your history and description, possibility of bacterial infection especially staphylococcus is more in her case. She is having pleural effusion and infective skin lesions on breast. Staphylococcus can cause pleural effusion and blister formation on skin. So chances of staphylococcal infection is more in her case. Better to send pleural fluid culture and sensitivity for the diagnosis of staphylococcal infection. This will also tell about effective antibiotic therapy. With appropriate antibiotics and Care, this infection can be treated. Hope I have solved your query. Wishing good health to your aunt. Thanks.


Question: i am 28 yrs old, i got married before 6 year, i was infected by pulmonary tuberculosis before 6 years, i took treatment for 6 months after that i statred gainig weigt, my periods was irredulat, i increased nearlt 20 kgs after that, now my weight is 75 kgs, i trying to conceive, i took tsh, other blood test too, but everything is normal, do i have the chances to conceive

Answer: Hi, thank you for asking Chat Doctor I understand your concerns No need to worry so much. The chances of conceiving still exist with irregular periods. I don't know if you have been trying to conceive but to no avail. If that is the case, then I think both of you have to be assessed. Infertility within a couple can be linked to a man, woman or both. If everything is fine with you except irregular periods, then I would advise that both of you should see a doctor for assessment and counseling. I hope that helps wish you well


Question: I sprained my foot on Friday. I stepped on what I thought was lawn. Instead I was a bit on the lawn, but the outside of my foot snapped down into a trough. My foot has been swollen since Friday. Today is Thursday. Kept ice on it for 24 hours. Bruising started after that, Now bruising is spreading. It is really dark on my toes. Pain is on outside of my foot, not on my ankle.

Answer: Hello, You have sustained twisting injury to foot which may lead to sprain or minor fracture in foot bones. Diagnosis needs to be confirmed by doing x-ray of the involved foot anteroposterior and oblique views to rule out bony abnormalities. If x-ray is normal RICE therapy is needed which means Rest Ice application Compression bandage and Limb Elevation. Tab Diclofenac sodium twice a day for pain relief and tab Choral forte twice a day for swelling reduction is required. If x-ray shows fracture Below knee slab may be given. If X-ray is abnormal please consult orthopedic surgeon nearby your area.  Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.


Question: hi, i have been recently diagnosed with H pylori.. i have been give the triple treatment of calithramycin, amoxxicilin and omeprazole.. is dis something very serious and does this have some long term implications etc.can u plz give some detailed information about Hpylori. thnx

Answer: HiT hanks for choosing Chat Doctor for your query. I appreciate your concern towards H pylori infection which normally causes break in the lining of the stomach (peptic ulcer). H pylori is an exceptional bacterium which can survive in the acidic environment of the stomach producing tissue damage result in ulcer. Since this is a bacterial infection, hence antibiotics are used for 2 weeks to kill H pylori. Along with antibiotics Omeprazole is given for a period of 4-6 weeks to suppress the acid production and to increase the healing process of the ulcer. It is not a serious condition, usually triple treatment is sufficient to cure this condition. You must avoid taking Alcohol, hot and spicy foods, NSAID painkiller, smoking, caffeine, carbonated sweetened soft Chat Doctor. I hope all your doubts have been clarified in a simple language,Feedback in this regard is highly appreciated. Take care


Question: I had a alt reading about 2+ months ago of 43 then retested today and got a 60 alt reading my other readings came back normal should I be concerned?Im 40 years 5ft 3 and weigh 192albs have a history of chronic vertigo and insomnia, and chronic sinus problems. I take valium 5 mg 4 times a day, fluticansone 2 puffs each nose once a day, qvair two puffs twice a day to prevent weasing, claritin for allergies, and I do sinus rinses as needed. I am female.My doctor says none of the medicine has liver side effects, and I dont drink alcohol but a sip on the rare occasion. He thinks it could be do my weight and Im working on this with gradual exercise when Im able too. Should I be worried with this test result? I had one other result that was high my triglcyerides read 198 ? WWW.WWWW.WW

Answer: Hello and thank you for asking Chat Doctor. I have read your report, and I understand your concerns. First I would say to not worry. Normal Alt levels are 7 to 56 unit (depending on from the kits that laboratories use)In one of your tests, your Alt was 60. This level is almost normal and it doesn't always mean a serious condition of your liver. Here are some reasons why a healthy person might have changes in the levels of liver enzymes


Question: i had surgery done 5 months ago for scar tissue and adhesion removal. my gynecologist just found a cyst on my right ovary. im still having problems, when my husband and i have sex i get severe cervical pain and afterward i get abdominal cramps severe enough i get light headed, also i get abdominal pain and rectal pain before and during a bowel movement, i also get abdominal pain during urination. im 26 years old. what could it be?

Answer: Hi. Thanks for your query and an elucidated history. Understood the history well. You have an obvious reason for pain - the adhesions and scar must have reformed. But the history of Dyspareunia, meaning painful sex indicated the is some active inflammatory process still going on in the pelvis called PID-Pelvic Inflammatory Disease. Cystitis and Procto-colitis are the additional problems causing the pain in abdomen and rectum before and during bowel movements as also during urination. Ovarian cyst can cause problem only if it enlarges fast or gets twisted. I would advise you the following


Question: Hi, I had a subarachnoid bleed and coiling of brain aneurysm last year. I am having some major bilateral temple pain along with numbness that comes and goes in my left arm/hand/fingers. I have had headaches since the aneurysm, but this is different. Also, my moods have been horrible for the past few weeks.

Answer: Aneurysm in brain causes headache due to compression of pain sensitive structure in brain. But pain is usually unilateral not bilateral. This pain will not radiate in both upper limb. Bilateral upper limb pain may be due to cervical spondylosis or other causes. You have anxiety of aneurysm, so due to anxiety your mood is horrible because aneurysm does not cause horrible mood change. So your headache may be chronic tension type headache. You may relieve by antianxiety Chat Doctor.


Question: Almost everytime I eat, it burns when I swallow. Not in my throat but in my chest. It burns all the way down. It helps a lil if I drink water after I swallow. I wake up a lot in the middle of the night with heartburn so I chew some tums and it helps for the most part. Why is it so painful when I eat?

Answer: Thanks for your question on Chat Doctor. I can understand your concern. In my opinion, you are mostly having HERD (gastroesophageal reflux disease). It is due to laxity of gastroesophageal sphincter. Because of this the acid of the stomach tends to come up in the esophagus and cause burning in chest. So follow these steps for better symptomatic relief. 1. Avoid stress and tension. 2. Avoid hot and spicy food. Avoid junk food. Avoid large meals, instead take frequent small meals. 3. Take proton pump inhibitors and prokinetic Chat Doctor.  4. Keep 2 - 3 pillows under head in the bed to prevent reflux. 5. Quit smoking and alcohol if you have these habits. Lose weight if you are obese. Don't worry, you will be alright with all these. Hope I have solved your query. I will be happy to help you further. Wish you good health. Thanks.


Question: for the pst  6 days  i have been haing  upper  abdome  distress ...  i have had gall bladder  surgery  2 yrs  ago ..in the past  2  yrs  when i get these bouts  .. i go to  emerg  they run cardiograms  xrays ,blood work ,all comes back normal  ...im stressing out  over this  as im  scared every time it happens  im having a heart  attack  wht is it  ?

Answer: Hi. Thanks for your query, read and understood your problems. You are getting bouts of pain in the upper abdomen within the last 2 years particularly after the gall bladder surgery. This is great news that cardiac problems are ruled out by the tests every time in the emergency Room. This means that we have to find a local cause in the abdomen itself. I would suggest the following


Question: I have a hole its about the size of a dime at the beggining of my butt crack (gross I know) but Im just wondering how to get rid of it at home I put anti bacterial on it with a q - tip it sizzles but nothing comes out or changes . What do I do ? (At home )

Answer: **1. Opinion and examination with Surgeon is of utmost importance since hole around butt crack could be


Question: Dear Doctor, We are trying to have a baby and gave it a big try this time but as we are planning to go for an Invitro (ICSI) for the next period, my doctor gave me Primolut Not from day 16 to day 25. I am wondering if this will have a negative impact on my pregnancy if I am pregnant because as explained we gave it a big try this time. Thank you in advance for your response. With my Best Regards; Mme Sue

Answer: Hellos you are going in for CSI next month, your doctor has given you Primal N for regulating the cycles. However, in case you have conceived this month, it is not advisable to take Primal N, as it causes virilization of female fetus and other abnormalities in the baby. There are other formulations of progesterone like Me Chat Doctor. These can be substituted for Primal - N. Please brief your IVF practitioner about the state of affairs and switch over to a safer


Question: Hello, I am in the middle of a serious anxiety/panic attack as I just became aware that I may have a tetanus infection. I am a senior at Clemson University and to be honest the apartment where I resided in the past four months was extremely unsanitary. One toilet was clogged for nearly two months which I now know could have bred bacterial spores that cause tetanus infections. I cut myself shaving around 1 1/2 months ago. I was out of razors and used a razor that had been sitting in the bathroom with the clogged up toilet I mentioned above. I did clean the razor with rubbing alcohol before use however I had an open wound on my face for a while.. About a week. For about a month now I have been feeling extremely irritable, experiencing lockjaw symptoms, been short of breath, had fevers on and off, heart palpitations, and I have noticed that when I smile my face contorts into what one would call a sardonic smile. Am I going to die? Please let me know your opinion

Answer: Hello, Welcome to Chat Doctor, I have gone through your query and understand your concern. Tetanus is a bacterial disease by clostridium retain. There is no cure for tetanus, but it can be prevented by adequate vaccination. Usual symptoms are all due to painful contraction of muscles as it affects our nervous system. Spasms and stiffness in your jaw muscles, stiffness of your neck muscles, difficulty swallowing, stiffness of your abdominal muscles, painful body spasms lasting for several minutes, typically frittered by minor occurrences, such as a Chat Doctor. If you are not get immunized for tetanus, you should start tetanus toxic vaccination now itself. First 2 doses at 4 weeks apart. Third dose after 6 months. After that your immunity may stand up to 10 years. Thank you.


Question: Hi hope you can helpive been getting chest pains, not severe but a constant pain, can happen when im just resting but has also happened when im exercising, it continues through to my back as well. I sometimes wake up with chest pains too. i have a strong history of heart disease. grandfather died at 26 from a heat attack and mother had one at 45, also grandmother on the other side had a heart attack. Could you please explain what is happening? Thanks

Answer: HelloThanks for posting at Chat Doctor. You have not provided your age on the details. I would have been able to help u better had you mentioned your age. You have complaints of chest pain radiating to back with strong family history. So in your case it is better that we evaluate you for presence of heart disease. I recommend an ECG and 2d echo initially. If both these tests are normal you can proceed for a treadmill test which requires you to walk on a treadmill while your ECG is continuously monitored. This will show if the heart blood supply suffers while you are exercising which indirectly predicts whether you have blockages in your heart. Please do the above tests and revert. Wishing you good healthRegards.


Question: Im 28 year old and suffering from male baldness pattern. I started using RICHFEEL tricology centres saw palmetto treatment but it didnt help, then I tried Minoxidil 5%  but discontinued it after 12 days after having some side effects (some tiny boils on my forehead). Kindly suggest me which medicine i should take.

Answer: Hi, You may stop it for a few days. Take oral treatment like tab finasteride 1 mg daily with tab biotin 10 mg thrice a day. Cleanse the scalp with ketoconazole shampoo daily. After a few days you may restart the minoxidil. Tiny boils may be folliculitis. Take a course of antibiotic like cap Doxycycline. Avoid stress and worries. Continue treatment for long time to get good result in an Chat Doctor.  Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.


Question: I too fell and hurt my left side of my chest. I have a large lump and I am very black and blue. I need to fly out on Sunday this fall happen last Sunday. I have been taking aleve for pain and arnica gel. Should I be worried about the flight? I am 70 Thank you,

Answer: Welcome to ChatDoctorYou may be having rib fractures. You have to do x-ray chest as early as possible. Rib fractures can cause pneumothorax/air in chest or hemothorax/blood in the chest which will be seen on x-ray. Only rib fractures needs no treatment except painkillers. But if pseudo or hemothorax is present that needs ICD tube insertion in the chest. In that case air travel should be avoided. Regards


Question: I have had a few small hard painless bumps where my cheek goes to my gums. this may sound terrible but they have been there, the same size & number for about a year if I remember correctly (scratch that, I just talked with a friend of mine & remebered they have been there for four years) & I have yet to tell my dentist about them. any thoughts? I am a 16 yr. old male & have used snuff habitually before, for only a few years but none the less.

Answer: Taking snuff for a prolonged period is not known to cause cancer, but it may lead to a number of local infections. Also, such people have a number of vitamin deficiencies which may also lead to irregularities in the cheeks and gums. I would advise you to take an antibiotic and antifungal (Tab Ciprofloxacin 500\u00a0mg twice daily +Tab For can 150\u00a0mg twice daily) plus a multivitamin (Tab B-Complex twice daily), all for 15 days. If your bumps don't improve by then, you should consult a surgeon.


Question: my mother is 80 yrs. detected with vulva cancer. vulva is swollen red ,around discolourisation, white growth now extending to rectum. biopsy shows keratinizing squamous carcinoma vulva(welldifferentiated,invasive).she is little asthmatic, has cervical spondeolytis .

Answer: Hi, dairy have gone through your question. I can understand your concern. She has well differentiated keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma.  If her general health is good then treatment of choice is wide excision of carcinoma followed by chemotherapy or radiotherapy if needed. Consult your doctor and take treatment accordingly. Hope I have answered your question, if you have doubt then I will be happy to answer. Thanks for using Chat Doctor. Wish you a very good health.


Question: Suddenly this morning I got really excruciating lower right back pain. I was standing in the kitchen and it came on suddenly. It s the lower right side. It does not go down in the my legs it s just isolated to my back. I have no nausea or no blood in my urine. Any idea on what it could be?

Answer: Hello! Welcome to Chat Doctor ! Lower back pain may cause by right lumber disc prolapse whicChatDoctorpresses the nerve. But exact other causes are diagnosed by physical examination or by MRI. Common causes of lower backache and leg pain is a lumbar ruptured disc or herniated disc. Symptoms of a herniated disc may include dull or sharp pain, muscle spasm or cramping, sciatica, and leg weakness or loss of leg function. Sneezing, coughing, or bending usually intensify the pain. Rarely bowel or bladder control is lost, and if this occurs, seek medical attention at once. Sciatica is a symptom frequently associated with a lumbar herniated disc. Pressure on one or several nerves that contribute to the sciatic nerve can cause pain, burning, tingling, and numbness that extends from the buttock into the leg and sometimes into the foot. Usually one side (left or right) is affected. Take care


Question: Hey I am on my third antibiotic and still coughing and my ribs are killing me especially right side. Doc claims it is viral cough syndrome left over from bronchitis . I do not think so. No fever the whole time. Xray was clear on lungs. Taking mucinex, third antibiotic, inhaler and can not get better. Ulcers in mouth and my face in breaking out bad. Been sick since December 28,2012.

Answer: Hi welcome to Chat Doctor forum. The reasons for persistent cough, without findings in the lungs might, Uveitis a growth at the end of the throat, by touching the pharynx cause severe cough. For this type of cough you need to use cough suppressants like dexametarphane, codeine, etc which are present in some cough syrups.  Best thing to get relief immediately is Darling with Luke warm salt water 2 or 3 times a day. Avoid taking fruits, juices, ice creams, ice water to Chat Doctor.  I advise you to consult an E.N.T.surgeon who is the doctor concerned with the causes in the pharynx.  Wishing for a quick and comfortable relief, and thanks for calling.


Question: Hi My mrs has this heart murmur, which is causing the blackouts, and she has panic attacks. Yesterday the doctor was quite concerned at how her blood pressure was so high, and then a couple of weeks go when she had her smear, it was too low. She has now got this bruising appearing around her lower back too, and i don t know how its been caused. I m really worried about her. Is this seriouse?

Answer: Hello, I would explain that a heart murmur could be related a structural heart abnormality.  For this reason, I would recommend performing a cardiac ultrasound and a resting ECG in order to examine her heart function and structure.  Considering her blackout attacks, I would recommend performing some tests too


Question: I am on metformin 1000mg bid for pcos & was prescribed Percocet 10/650 for a severely displaced fracture needing surgery. I drink a glass of red wine nightly for heart heglth Bhc cardiac disease runs in my family... Should I be concerned a our elastase liver function test? I am also on Zoloft 150 daily, adderall 30mg bid & clonazepam as needed who I take a few night a a week

Answer: Hi, dairy have gone through your question. I can understand your concern. You taken percent, clonazepam, Zoloft, Adderall so in my opinion you should avoid alcohol. It will damage the liver and will put you in trouble. You should check your liver enzymes levels once and also go for ultrasound abdomen once to rule out any alcoholic liver disease. Hope I have answered your question. If you have any doubts then feel free to ask me. I will be happy to answer. Thanks for using Chat Doctor. Wish you a very good health.


Question: I stopped taking microgestin, mid-pack, on 12/5/13 after being on it for 2 1/2 months. I had withdrawal bleeding 12/9/13 - 12/13/13.I was supposed to get my period 1/5/14 but i am late. Before birth control my cycles were always regular and always 28-29 days. My boyfriend and i have been using the pullout method frequently before and after stopping the pill. Could i be pregnant?

Answer: Hallow Dear, Since you are no more on the birth control pills now, you are no more having any contraceptive protection. Pull out technique is not a safe and reliable technique for contraception. In this method, the penis is pulled out of vagina before the ejaculation takes place. However, before ejaculation, pre-seminal or pre-ejaculatory secretions (pre-cum) are deposited in the vagina unknowingly. Pre-cum does contain some sperms which are capable of impregnating a woman. Now that you have missed your period, please get your pregnancy test done on overnight morning first urine sample a week after the missed period; earlier, the test may report false negative. Alternatively, you may perform Beta Chat Doctor test on the blood. This will help you detect your pregnancy status. If you are not pregnant, you may take some progestational preparation like Devilry for 5 days (with advice of a Gynecologist). Then within 4-7 days, you should get with Chat Doctor.  However, if you are pregnant, you may opt for medical termination of pregnancy. Since you are regularly engaged in sexual activity and do not want to continue with oral contraceptive pills, please adopt some other reliable contraceptive method like condom or intrauterine device. I hope this clarifies the issue.


Question: I am going through Jaundice due to Hepatitis E, my stomach has gone too much weak, at time a lot of acidity. I was in hospital for 5 days but now feeling much better then before and my Total bilirubin has come down to 5 and liver enzymes are around 1400. Body is too much fluctuating, at times i feel better and at times i feel pathetic. I am on complete rest, at times i walk around else not much of physical work. I am taking monolive but i can see Liv52 is more famous, should i change that?

Answer: HelloThanks for asking query on HC. I presume that you have been diagnosed with acute hepatitis E based on the relevant tests. You must know that acute hepatitis E is a self limiting disease, only needs supportive care. You are correctly started on Mongolia (UCA), please continue that, no need to change to Liv 52. Furthermore, you may also require acid suppressing and antiemetic tablets like - Antacid DSR along with some vitamin supplements. Have good quality food with necessary proteins and vitamins. You will become normal in another weak. Mind you bilirubin is the last thing to normalize. So don't worry about that. Alarm signs which one should keep in mind are - excessive sleepiness, bleeding manifestations and inability to eat anything. Take care.


Question: My family has recently gotten the scabies mite... WE have cleaned our house top to bott om with hot soapy water, Rid, Used a cleaner on carpet/couch. we treated ourselfs with Permethern cream, Eurax, and i have used tea tree oils, poroxide, etc. Everyone but me and a older son has kicked it. I have went as far as sanding my skin....My question is what do I do to rid it once and for all SAFETLY! I was told Borax in a tub ....is that safe? HELP

Answer: Hi and thank you so much for this query. Can be very disturbing to get your entire household infested by scabies. Hygiene is the rule. Treating every sick person, washing and disinfection all linen as well as ironing would ensure that this bug is gotten rid of. So step up your personal hygiene after treating every affected individual and disinfecting all linen. I hope this ad Chat Doctor.  Feel free t ask for more information if needed. Thanks for using this panel for your questions.


Question: Hi, didn t expect to get a real person, but since your are here, I will tell you about symptoms I have been having. I think they are panic or anxiety attacks, but who knows. I get a tight feeling in the back of my head that moves to my temples then down into my throat and eventually down the middle of my chest. I get very emotional when this happens and after all that, I can t catch my breath and my heart beats really fast. It usually goes away in 2 or 3 minutes, if I can sit down and concentrate on my breathing. I recently had an MRI and my heart was found to be OK......any ideas????

Answer: Degree understand your concerns went through your details. I suggest you not to worry much.  You are mistaken. We are human beings and are here to answer your queries. You can expect answer from a real person here. In anxiety attacks, obsession with a thought brings anxiety symptoms and then comes emotions. Before the symptoms comes, there is always apprehension. Anxiety attack or panic attack is always an after effect of anxiety. What is your reason for anxiety? Any fear, stress, molestation, health related worries? Find out and you shall get the answer. The answer shall help cure your condition. If you require more of my help in this aspect, Please post a direct question to me in this website. Make sure that you include every minute details possible. I shall prescribe the needed psychotherapy techniques which should help you cure your condition further. Hope this answers your query. Available for further clarifications. Good luck.


Question: I fell on uneven sidewalk on July 3rd and hurt my knee

Answer: Welcome to Chat Doctor I have gone through your query and understand your concern. You're swelling of foot and calf may be related to edema after injury. It is useful to keep limb elevated. Active toe movement will be useful to reduce swelling. Analgesic such as ibuprofen is useful to get relief from pain. You can discuss with your doctor about it. Hope your query get answered. If you have any clarification then don't hesitate to write to us. I will be happy to help you. Wishing you a good health. Take care.


Question: Dear doctor, i am 33 male recently i have undergone pre employment medical check up and it was found that i have sgpt- 194 except this all test are absolutely normal test includes 1) CBC2. ESR and liver test 3. Urine Routine 4. Blood Group & Rh Factor 5. X-ray (Chest)6. General Physical Examination7. Fasting Blood Sugar &Post Prandial Blood Sugar8. Total Cholesterol9. ECG10. Serum Creatininenow they have advised me to got my ultrasound done full abdomen. i have got it done today and every thing is normal and they found mild fatty liver. Another thing i want to share that i was suffering from loose motions and was on Ofloxacin-200mg with ornidazole500mg B.D dosage (oflox OZ )medication for 2days and continued ofloxacin-200 B.D dosage (oflox) for another 3days as was suffering cold and cough also.now i need to go to gastro doctor to get the ultrasound reports checked. Just want to know what could be the reason for this elevated SGPT and will i get the clearance for joining new company.what should i do to lower my SGPT levels?? and what diet i should follow i am not a heavy drinker just take drinks occasionally and i am not fond of junk food as well.

Answer: Hello, I can understand your concern for abnormal blood report.1) Your symptom of loose motion might be due to indigestion. There is no role of antibiotic in this. Instead, you should take intestinal digestive enzyme supplementation.2) Elevated SGPT level indicate either liver function is weak or liver has too much load to work. Fatty liver is condition in which excessive fat get deposited in liver tissue and affect liver function. This is the reason for elevated SGPT level in your case.3) Fatty liver is due to high level of fat in blood stream secondary to lipid (fat)-rich diet. This might lead to elevated cholesterol level. Thus, it is recommended for you to undergo lipid profile test.4) Mild fatty liver is reversible condition. You should do - regular exercise, intermittent fasting (weekly once), high protein diet, low fat-diet, use of omega-3 fatty acid containing oil in food preparation, avoidance of alcohol intake. Your SGPT level can come to normal range with these measure in 15-20 days. Hope I answered your query. If you have any further question, I would be happy to help you. Have a nice day!


Question: Hello, My name is Wanda I am a 40year old female with type one diabetes (have had it for 7 years ) I have had a tooth infection in my gums for honestly on and off for about 2 years it swells up then bursts with yellowish clear pus above a tooth which needs to be pulled. I have felt like Ive had a sinus cold for the past few weeks and then discovered a sore on the inside of my left nostil.. could they be connected

Answer: Hello Wanda and welcome. Thanks for sharing your concern. The roots of upper molars are in very proximity with the maxillary sinus above.Therefore, sometimes it becomes difficult to diagnose whether the patient presents pain due to tooth infection or sinusitis. But clinical evaluation with supporting x-rays makes it clear whether the origin of infection is teeth or sinus.Therefore, in my view please meet your dentist/ENT specialist for a sinus view x-ray. This will make things pretty clear.Meanwhile, do take good care of yourself.ET us know for further doubts. Thanks. Take care.


Question: I had a partial root canal roughly 36 hours ago on my lower left rear molar (wisdom teeth extracted years ago).  The doctor drilled out the pulp (noting that it was mostly dead) and put on a temporary filling until the root canal specialist could see me.  Now, about 36 hours later, Im in quite a bit of pain again, both on the tooth that was operated on and in a molar on the top of my jaw and in the back jaw muscle.  My neck is rather swollen too and is tender to the touch.  I have plans to travel tomorrow by plane to see some family and go diving.  Is my condition something that requires immediate attention?  Should I not be flying or diving?

Answer: Welcome to Chat Doctor forum. Dead pulp inside a root canal is almost always infected with several bacteria. Now, while removing those dead pulp/ remaining tissue or washing the root canal, there is every possibility that some part of that infected material pushed through the root apex foramen(hole) to the surrounding area. Naturally that area become infected and in many instances the infection expressed as an acute infection of root apex area with pain and may be with swelling. It is called ENDODONTIC FLARE UP. It may happen in 50% patients after the cleaning of root canal. The dentist has no control over it. There is no need of postponing your travel schedule. You should start an antibiotic like Augmenting or same type (Amoxicillin 500 mg + Clavulanic acid 125\u00a0mg) 8 hourly for 5 days. Along with that you have to take Diclofenac 100 mg + Paracetamol 500\u00a0mg, 3 times a day in full stomach. If you have a history of excessive acidity, you have to take 10 ml of any liquid antacid before taking Diclofenac.  Your pain will subside with in 2 to 3 days. But continue Antibiotic for 5 days. Best wishes.


Question: My doctor had issue with finding the baby during my transvaginal ultrasound is that because I had to pee she could see the yoke sac and I measured 9 weeks but what she thought was the baby was measuring 7 weeks. I am just worried and want to know if that interfered

Answer: Hello,First, do not panic. As you might be aware that yolk sac is a structure attached with an embryo-baby, for its nutrition in early pregnancy. The reason for not finding the baby and only finding the yolk sac can be small pregnancy duration may be due to delayed ovulation and delayed conception. I will suggest you get a repeat ultrasound done after two weeks. Please start on Folic acid and vitamin B 12 supplements. Option for a healthy diet and regular exercise regimen. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.


Question: I hit a volleyball this after with the underside if my hand (made a fist) it bent my wrist backward causing pain. Now about 7 hrs later it is still very painful to my hand backwards and all to put pressure on my wrist. These are fairly sharp pains. It does not hurt to pick things up or grip most objects. There is only pain when I move my hand. Thank you.

Answer: Dear patient You must have injured wrist ligament due to extreme stretching while playing and this is leading to pain. Still possibility of fracture needs to be ruled out, and I would advise X-ray of involved wrist with hand anteroposterior and lateral views.  Visit radiology center nearby you and get it done. If report is normal diagnosis is wrist sprain.  Avoid game for 2 weeks and apply wrist binder for 3 weeks. Start tab diclofenac plus serratiopeptodase combination twice a day for 5 days for pain relief. If X-ray report is abnormal you need to consult expert orthopedic surgeon with report.  All the best.


Question: I have a pacemaker, due to atrial fibrillation, and have been put on coumadin. It does not seem to thin my blood, and am on 750 mg a day, and it makes me nauseous and extremely dizzy, to the point where I can t function. Are there any foods that help thin the blood? Also, do fish oils help or hinder the thinning process? I would really like to take less medication and get results that are favorable.

Answer: Hi, Green leafy vegetables like spinach, broccoli and food rich in vitamin K antagonize the effect of medicine. So these should be consumed in moderate amount, since we can't stop green vegetables altogether. And importantly, daily this intake should be kept constant otherwise effects may fluctuate.  Fish doesn't have significant effect on Chat Doctor. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.


Question: My younger brother liver & spleen got enlarged. Hepatitis B&C found in blood. Mild ascitis & SOL on both lube of liver found. His age is 15. Weight is 28 kg. He is having serious less appetite. I am attaching the all the reports. Please advice us how to proceed and the exact condition of the patient.Here two doctors said he will need a full liver transplantation...

Answer: Hi thanks for contacting Chat Doctor ... Your brother have both hepatitis b and c positive.... Your brother might have chronic liver affection with it can be cirrhosis liver associated... Morever you are mentioning space occupying lesion in liver... It should be investigated for malignancy as chance of development of hepatocellular carcinoma more if both B and C hepatitis present... For that contrast enhanced CT scan with AFP estimation can be done... If needed for confirmation USG guided biopsy might be needed.... Ultimate treatment for chronic liver problem is liver transplantation... Your report attached cant seen here in public forum questions... For more opinion you can consult gastroenterologist .... You can take follow up advise by using premium questions...Meanwhile, take low fat diet... Fruits taken more... Green leafy vegetables useful.... Take early in morning grinned spinach and carrot juice.... Hope you concern solved.... Take care.... Chat Doctor.


Question: Hi Over the past 2 days I have had a sore jaw on the right side only. Doesn t feel sore on the outside of my face, but extremely tender on the tendon that attaches jaw together. Inside of cheek also appears swollen. Right side of tongue feels strange, and slightly sore to swallow also. I m 40 but my wisdom teeth never came in, could this be a cause?

Answer: Hello, I can understand your concern. Usually, wisdom teetChatDoctore in mouth at the age of 18 to 25 years. However, as you have never had them in mouth, it is possible that they might be impacted or locked in the jaw. As right side of jaw is causing you pain, let us focus on that only. Due to absence of physical space to come out in mouth or due to its improper position, it might be possible that the wisdom tooth of that side was locked in the jaw all this time and now might be impinging on the muscle of the mastication or nerve that supplies tongue causing you the pain and discomfort you are experiencing. It is also a possibility that a tooth might be decayed on the side of the jaw that is causing you problems, has developed an abscess that is causing these symptoms. In both cases, you need to visit a dentist to get an oral examination to find out if any tooth is decayed and taking x-ray of the wisdom tooth area to diagnose wisdom tooth related problem. By the time you ET an appointment of the dentist, Ibuprofen 400 mg thrice a day will help you in getting relief from pain. Please refrain from hot water gargles or heat compression as if the pain would be abscess related, it would worsen. I hope this information helps you. Thank you for choosing Chat Doctor. I wish you feel better soon. Best,


Question: Hi, Can anyone give me the solution for Aplastic Anemia ? my 4 years old daughter suffering from Aplastic anemia since April 2010. Regards, Vinod

Answer: Dear Vinod


Question: I HAVE HAD SEVERAL TIAS BEFORE THE AGE OF 40 AND JUST RECENTLY I HAD DIFFICULTIES ORGANSIZING MY THOUGHTS AND THEN TRYINGTO SAYING WHAT WAS IN MY BRAIN HAPPENED APRIL 15 AND THEN THE NEXT DAY WHEN I ANSWERED THE PHONE WERE I VOLUNTEERED IT HAPPENED AGAIN; I COULD NOT SAY GOOD AFTERNOON SHIRLEY SPEAKING HOW MAY I HELP YOU. ANY SUGGESTIONS WHAT I WAS EXPERIENCING?

Answer: Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor .com I am Chat Doctor. Mariano Into Bruno Mascaras. I have gone through your query with diligence and would like you to know that I am here to help you. Q1


Question: My son is 1 yr 8 months old...he is not walking on his own...so dr suggested MRI n MRI report shows .ventricular system appears mildly prominent,normal in shape position and signal morphology,cisternal and sulcal spaces are mildly prominent,small faint hyperintense areas noted in bilateral periventricular frontal and Pareto occipital regions.rests things are normal....pls tell me wat does it means

Answer: Hi...though I do not have the images of the MRI before me right now, by what you quote, I feel it should be - Periventricular Leukoplakia - a condition which occurs in prematurely or underweight born babies. Their mentation and IQ will be perfect, but they will have problems with their legs and walking. Usually there won't be any problem with the hands. This condition is called - Spastic Diplopia and is amenable for physiotherapy. Please do not worry as the kid will get better with physiotherapy. Regards -


Question: Hi. My 18month old has had red and swollen eyes for about 5 days. I took him to his doctor and they have no idea what is wrong. His eye itself is unaffected. It seems to be isolated to the outside of the eye (eye lid, and beneath. Just last night he broke out in a rash all over his body. I need ANSWERS badly. Can you help?

Answer: Hello. I'm a pediatrician. From your description I think he might be having present orbital cellulitis. In this condition soft tissue around eye is infected. Baby will be toxic and having high fever. Eyes may be swollen, it massive be difficult to open eye. Rash on rest body might be due to Chat Doctor.  Consult ophthalmologist and pediatrician. If it is really orbital cellulitis then baby might be needing admission


Question: I fell down three stairs on my buttocks, when I got up I almost passed out I ran to my bed and waited till I felt better. I have been feeling nauseated since then and cant stand for a long period of time without feeling like im going to be sick. It is also painful to sit. Im on blood thinners what should I do?

Answer: Dear France pain is from muscular strain due to injury. You can take analgesic like ibuprofen or if severe pain take combination of diclofenac+paracetamol+chlorzoxazon/serratiopeptidase with omeprazole/pantoprazole + risperidone to relieve nausea for 2-3 days. This will clear all symptoms. If symptoms are severe consult your family doctor first. Hope this answer will be helpful to you. For more queries please don't hesitate to ask. Get well soon.


Question: Do you take multiple chemical sensitivities seriously and understand how debilitating fragrance chemicals are? Do you think there is always an under-lying cause for scent sensitivity/allergy (yes, I have allergic reactions to dryer sheets like Bounce and Scent Boosters)ie rash hot prickly skin, swelling of tongue, extreme thirst... do you think (my) immune system was already compromised or do you think the neurotoxic petro chemicals in fragrance products alone can cut a person s life down to the knees overnight?

Answer: It's a very good question and thousands of people who read it, I fact, can reap the benefits out of suggestions given herein, based on the principles of Ayurveda - the nascent science of life.First there is a principle cited in Ayurveda about how to prevent/ cure a disease. Its NIDAANPARIVARJAN (in Sanskrit language) which literally means avoidance of the cause. Now, in many cases people are not able to change jobs or circumstances are such that they have to remain in such conditions. Here comes the principle of PRAANVAYU (richness of oxygen and fresh air) that is achieved by rhythms of deep breathing exercises called PRAANAYAM. Indias Yoga has spread to the World and people who are aware are enjoying the benefits. It enhances immunity, gives strength to fight allergens and extends life as also betters quality of life. Then there are herbs to naturally support the fight of body against allergens. Simple herbs like Turmeric, Need, Manisha, Gilroy, Quasi (Holy basil) etc. not only counter allergens but detoxifies the blood and also raise natural immunity. The hitch among beginners is its slow pace of action. Yes naturals are slow as compared to man made synthetic and toxic medicines but then what advantage has these fast Chat Doctor.  No doubt modern synthetics have won in emergency situations and saved lives. But lifestyle disorders and the one you are suffering from needs naturals to support you. These do not have side effects, no interaction with


Question: dear doctor, in hot and humid weather my 5 year old get some sort of pimples here and there on her body....i hv put her on homeopathy and also put spirit on it which prevents pimple from growing further....shown her to her paeditrician who saying she just has sensitive skin and hasnt given her medicine...homeopathy is specifically for staphlococci bacteria.....doctor feels i dnt need a blood test....will the problem go away in a few days with homeopathy and spirit application...i worry abt extreme situations like bacteia contaminating blood etc....am i just overdoing it as she absolutely fine and no fever or discomfort....she tuchwud fine and just sweats a lot due to humidity.....pl tell is this common in kids and any cause to worry...hope nothing infects blood as no major medication gvn by doctor

Answer: Hi, Is she having fever? How are the lesions-itchy / fluid filled / pus filled? It was helpful if you can send us a picture. In hot and humid climate, most likely this is Emilia- small pimples over the skin due to clogging and blockage of sweat glands. In absence of secondary infection (painful / edematous / pus filled), this does not require any specific treatment other than avoiding direct sunlight and keeping the skin cool with wet moping 3-4 times a day(apart from routine bath). If itchy, I used to give calamine lotion and antihistamine like levocetirizine for few days. In short, if she is not febrile and the lesions are not with surrounding edema / pain / tenderness / pus filled-this does not indicate bacterial infection-hence no need of antibiotics and no chance of blood contamination. Hope I have answered your question. Let me know if I can assist you further.


Question: Hello its since 11 days that we had unprotected sex on 7 may though I ejaculated outside bt m feeling tensed about this. Her last period was on 22nd April. She had vomited in these days though it had stopped now. Am very tensed and shes also. What should we do.? Can we avail pregnancy urine test at home now. Its 18 may today n she normally mensturates at 26 days interval......help us.

Answer: Hello, thanks for writing in. I understand your anxiety. The pull-out method is not 100% foolproof. If your partner has a 26-day cycle, it means she would be due around the 18th. A delay does not always mean a pregnancy, it can also be due to the mental anxiety, illness etc. She can test for a pregnancy using a home pregnancy kit about 4-5 days after the date of the missed period (assuming she has regular cycles). Ask her to use a morning sample preferably. If there is a doubt, better do a pelvic ultrasound the week after. Do not worry, seek a gynecologist opinion in case it is positive. All the best.


Question: My son had fits in his sleep at early morning for the first time. He is 8 years 5 months old. Fits was around 3 minutes and he went to unconsious later for another 2 to 3 minutes. When he got conscious he does not remember any. He was having veeze problems from few days and was on medication. We checked in the family and cleared not a heridity issue. I am very concerned and seeking your help to understand the situation.

Answer: Hi...by what you quote this seems to be a type of seizure called complex partial seizure (CPS) or generalized tonic-clonic seizures. This is not related to wheeze or its related medications. As it has occurred for the first time, without anybody in the family having it, he definitely needs evaluation. He will need a basic blood work up and EEG and MRI brain. Nothing to worry, if he is stable now. The tests will throw light upon the probable cause and then the doctors will be in a better to counsel you on further proceedings and prognosis. Regards -


Question: My dog bit my 12 years old son. He had his 0 and 3 days shots he just need to come back for the seventh day does he needs to finish all his shots? And my dog doesnt have a rabis shot yet on he day he bit my son because his only 2 months and 3 weeks but a week later we let him have his rabis shot what are the signs I need to look for my dog and how long do I need to observe the dog

Answer: Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor Forum. I have gone through your Query & I really appreciate your concern about the problem you are facing. As a physician I would like to tell you that you need to observe your dog till15-20 days. Also, your son needs to take 3rd shot, i.e., of 7th day. Also, you did the right thing by vaccinating our dog. So you need not worry about anything. Thanks for Trusting & Posting your Query on this forum. Hope this will help you. Feel free to ask any further question. Have a nice Day. Chat Doctor.


Question: Hi, i ve been on the Noriday pill for 10 months now (i was on the Depo Injection prior to it), i started having heavy periods at the start of December and i m on my fourth period now. Is this normal for this pill? The reason i went on this particular one was because it was similiar to the Depo Injection. I didnt get any periods with the Depo.

Answer: Hi, Thanks for the query. Holiday pill is a mini pill containing progesterone. During the usage of contraceptive pills some amount of irregularity in menstrual flow is common. If you are having heavy bleeding, you can take symptomatic treatment for that and can continue the pills. If same problem repeats frequently better to think of changing the contraceptive method. You discuss this with your doctor and proceed according to her advice. Take care.


Question: my father is diagnosed with kidney cancer in july last yr, he got his left kidneyremoved and was given target therapy starting from nexavar .after 6 months PAT scan showed slight increase in disease and was put onsecond med which further detiorated the condition .....causing utter weakness as a result med was discontinuedfor a week which further worsened the condition .....again fluid in lungs and now speech is also not clear ....brain CT was done n some cells were found.....as a result radiation therapy was given for 10 days ....it gave positive results along with med VOTRIENT....everything remained fine for a month but today he had a fit type condition and lost his speech for sometime so Doc pls guide what next PAT SCAN is due in june first week.

Answer: Dear Mr. seigneur, I am sorry to convey you that your father has entered a very advanced stage of the disease. He is resistant to all forms of therapy now and is also intolerant to other active treatment. Please give him only palliative management to comfort him. No active treatment is advocated. Please consult your primary physician who will guide you for this form of terminal care and comfort. Truly,


Question: I fell over at work 3 weeks ago and hit the bottom of my back on a wooden floor and I have been in so much pain since, I was signed off work for 2 weeks by a doctor and just got back into work and it has made it worse, I can barely walk now and my back keeps seizing up. what should I do?

Answer: HiT hank you for asking ChatDoctorIf you having pain after 3 weeks of fall an injury like fracture should be ruled out. A x-ray should be taken according to the point of tenderness. If wide pain is there I recommend taking a pelvis and Lumbosacral spine x-ray. If no fracture is then it can be due to strain or sprain. In such case I advise muscle relaxants like thiocolchicoside NSAIDs like diclofenac and neurotrophic Chat Doctor. I also recommend doing warm compress on back. Hope this may help you. Let me know if you have any further query.


Question: Hi, I have a bump on the top of my helix where usually a piercing would be, but i never had a piercing before, just informing you where this bump is. It looks like a blister, but it doesn t hurt. I don t know how long it s been there. If you could please tell me what it might be that would be great! Thank You.

Answer: Hi, Dear,Welcome with your query to Chat Doctor. Studied your query in full depth of its details. Reviewed it in context of your health concerns. Based On the facts, Dear, you need to consult Surgeon for checking other causes of such a lump. But I would alert you to rule out TB with Erythema Nodes which may be missed as a cause of such a lump on the helix. Fibro-chon Chat Doctor. This reply would help you to plan further treatment soon with your treating doctors. Best of Luck and early recovery. Welcome any further query in this regard, which would be replied in next session. Good Day!!


Question: At lest once or twice a week my arms chest feel hot and tingling ...times I get just swollen arms and tingling on one side of my face....what causes this ..thanks....I have been on depression medication and blood pressure meds..Never been sick ....used to workout but I am a product of the recession so stress is a big part of my lifethanks

Answer: Hello, welcome to Chat Doctor. Your symptoms are related to stress and depression. Depression can manifest not only with psychological symptoms but with a variety of physical symptoms also like


Question: Hi i am suffering from ring worm on wrist, ankle, groin infection from last 8 months now and had taken medices like TerbestGrisODKenz LevosisAF 150 and used external creams like Cansten SBrutnaskin BMSercos..every tablet has temporary effect one i stop it come back again ....pls help

Answer: Thanks for asking in Chat Doctor Forum In Short


Question: My baby is 3 month old. She cannot sleep at night.she feels sleepy, so when she is on our lap she is sleeping ,,but when we are trying to put her down in bed , she wakes up.,please let me know the solution of this. We have also checked whether her nose are blocked or not . But she is not having blocked nose.

Answer: DearWelcome to ChatDoctorWe understand your concerns went through your details. 3 year child only understands security and care. She clings to anything that provides security and care. Naturally, she is clinging to you. Let her do it. While putting her down, you also lie down with her. Nursing habit also can be imparted while laying down. Such a change of habit, will change her way of looking at security and care. These are related to training. You need to use alternate techniques of training. If you require more of my help in this aspect, please use this URL. http


Question: hi doc.. my child is 4 1/2 yr old boy, past 15 days his poops are little abnormal, just after eating or drinking milk he is passing his stools, normally he goes only once or max twice a day, but now he goes around 4-5 times a day, he happened to eat uncooked chicken when he was on vaccation, day next there is this abnormal change and bad smell coming through his mouth. when consulted pediatric, he gave cepodom 100 mg for 5 days, but still the problem continues and today my child happened to vomit this evening. pl suggest as what to do.

Answer: Hi... Thank you for consulting in Chat Doctor. What your kid is having is not a diarrhea and is only a gastronomic reflux. It is quite common for kids to pass small amount of diarrhea or loose stools soon after feeds. This need not be treated as diarrhea and especially antibiotics are not indicated. When the kid takes feeds, the stomach expands - then when it is contracting it sets off a wave form which moves down the intestines and when that wave reaches the lower down rectum, a small quantity of the stool is evacuated out. This is the basis for gastronomic reflex. Do not worry. Unless the kids having low urine output or very dull or excessively sleepy or blood in motion or green bilious vomiting...you need not worry. Regards -


Question: Hi. I have a history of kidney stones and I recently just passed another stone back in December. I woke up today, though, in terrible pain. I feel like Im going to vomit, like something tight is gagging me around my neck. Im very hot. There is blood in my stool and I dont think Im going to leave the bathroom any time soon. Could this be another kidney stone? Or is the blood in my stool from something else? Your response is very important to me. Please and thank you!

Answer: Hi, Renal calculus when passes through ureteric wall it irritates it n have severe pain in flank which can radiate to groin thigh umbilicus scrotum /labia major associated with nausea vomiting and other urinary symptoms including hematuria. It never causes blood in stool which can be due to pathology in GIT.  So visit a gastrosurgeon for bleeding PR and Urologist for your Renal calculus. Hope this ll help Thanks n regards


Question: I feel as though there is a liquid near the surface of my upper left chest muscle near the arm pit that burns when I lean foreword in a standing position. The burn is very intense like a white hot iron is slouching in that area. just started 4 hours ago and is increasing in area. feels liquid in nature, but i feel no bump and it may be inside rib at that location? do not feel it by putting finger pressure in general area.

Answer: Thanks for your question on Chat Doctor. I can understand your situation and problem. In my opinion you should first get done 1. Chest x-ray 2.  Ultrasound examination of local part. Lung infection or skin infection (left upper chest area) can cause symptoms of burning and fluid sensation. If both these are normal then no need to worry about major diseases. Also get done vitamin B 12 level, hemoglobin estimation as b 12 deficiency and anemia can give rise to similar sensation. If any of these are deficient then you need supplements. Don't worry, you will be alright.


Question: I have noticed that I ve been getting these sore reddish spots with a white ring around them on my tounge.the spot on my tounge is reddish with a white ring around it and the other 3 are bigger patches on the back of my tounge but there not red,they do have a white ring around them nd they look as if I been eating to much sour stuff which I have not.the only one that is slightly painful is the reddish one on the tip of my tounge,what could this be and should I be worried? They come and go

Answer: Hello there, You may have a manifestation of a micronutrient deficiency. You should have a multivitamin once a day for the next 1 week preferably one with vitamin b-12(cyanocobalamine) and then assess whether your spots go down. If they don't the pleasing visit a doctor who would do tests to evaluate any underlying deficiency. Also adding probiotics to your diet like yogurt would help. Thank you for your query, Chat Doctor.


Question: Hello Sir, I have skin allergy to avoid itching i have to take cetrizine alternate day.because cetrize i feel sleepy and cozy , is there any treatment for this permanently. Please advice i am facing this problem for last 5 years i am 32 years old man.

Answer: Hi, thanks for using Chat Doctor The only cure for the allergy would be to avoid the source if it is known. There are allergy tests that can be done to determine the source of the response. These can be in the form of blood tests or skin tests. If the source is not known, or you cannot avoid it then the allergy would continue, and would need to continue the antihistamines. Though cetirizine is non Chat Doctor.  You may want to try other non


Question: My cellulitis has existed for about 4 months. The warmth and redness have disappeared but the swelling is still here, though has diminished quite a bit. Tightness still in my ankle and sometimes some pain. I do put my leg up often and use a compression stocking. Antibiotics have not been effective. Used a topical homeopathic ointment which seemed to help. Doesn t seem to be caused by an infection;most probably an autoimmune condition as I had my thyroid removed 5 yrs. ago with resultant fatigue. I m 87, 5 5 . I read recently that I should stay in bed most of the time with my leg up. Is that really necessary? Will this condition go away eventually? How can I improve my autoimmune condition?

Answer: Hello Their have gone through your question, I had a same case with swelling in ankle area because of the cellulitis, I have found electro-therapy effective in the treating the swelling caused by cellulitis. We call this machine IT [inter-ferential therapy]. An experienced Physiotherapy will give you IT treatment at a frequency of 70-100 and if pain is there 20-30 frequency current would be used.in the meantime you can start calf stretching to activate \"pumping mechanism\" of your calf muscles as Calf muscle is called as HEART of lower body. So once these muscles get activated swelling would not e a problem anymore. Also try Isometric exercises of calf muscle. I am hoping a speedy recovery for you. Regards


Question: Hi Sir, My mother is 68yeasr old, and from very recently from 1year she got into wheesing and continious coughing, feeling chest heaviness, my mother had check x-ray and PFT which is normal, and she is been adviced to take omnacartil medicine but with this medicie she getting very week. is there any other medicine to get rid of this wheezing and couphing problem... she is also taking Asthalin nebulisation but this was giving her a temporary healing and again the cough and wheezing is back... please suggest

Answer: Thanks for your question on Chat Doctor. In my opinion you should start oral bronchodilators. There are many good oral bronchodilators available. 1. Theophylline derivatives like acebrophyllin, doxophyllin etc2. BambuterolYou can also try antiallergic and antihistamine tablet once in night. Better to give her LAB (Long Acting Beta 2 Agonist) and ICS (Inhaled corticosteroids) as they are long acting and gives relief for almost 12 hours, while Stalin gives only relief for 3-4 hours.


Question: Hi Good MorningI am 33 years old IT professional working in Bangalore India. My wife has some health issue....1. She could not walk much...legs get swell2. hair falling 3. Digestion problem.4. She does not sleep properly.5. we both smoke. 2-3 perday sharing.6. weakness7. and very enger and rigid.Please help me out how to work out to increase her hemoglovin... and other ...?

Answer: HiI understand your concern.1st of all she requires body check up and routine tests like CBC, FT, LFT and thyroid profile. Medical cause need to be rule out 1st. Hemoglobin can increase with medicines which has iron content. There are lots of preparation of multivitamin available which will help in weakness and for general health. For a good sleep following will helpful certain routines and lifestyle modification will help you like fix sleep schedule and stick on it, no daytime sleep exercise that makes you fatigueRelaxation, yoga and meditations avoid alcohol and smoking, avoid heavy meal in dinner, avoid tea coffee soft Chat Doctor. But go for physical check up and get well soon. Thank you.


Question: hi today like 5 hours ago i climbed a rusty net and i have 3 verry verry tiny scratches on my hand... if im infected by tentanus can i go tomorrow instead of today? because its 1

Answer: Hii appreciate your concerns would like to know about your previous immunization for tetanus if you are well immunized, taken last TT injection within last 5 years you need not worry, as such you had just tiny scratches so It's not so bothersome as well. You can take it tomorrow Hope I have answered your question. If you have any further questions I will be happy to help wish you good health Chat Doctor.


Question: My 3 year old daughter complains headache and throat pain since yesterday. Shes also having a hard time sleeping right now. She doesnt have fever but shes asking for blanket, telling me shes cold but were in a tropical-hot country and its really humid-hot right now, so Im really concerned if shes alright.

Answer: Welcome to the ChatDoctorI completely understand your concerns but don't worry. The most likely reason for these symptoms are self limiting viral infections. They just need symptomatic treatment. I recommend the following for such cases


Question: Hello, I recently developed a very itchy penis which when I itch, leads to red patchs which sometimes become red and glossy. It is very irritable and causes pain when i have intercourse. I also have developed itchy thighs.. It started just at the top and has now developed over most of my thighs. The itching comes and goes and shows in small patches , not lumps but itchy red spots. i am worried that it is an std as i have had a lot of unprotected sex recently (lesson learnt) but the symptoms don t relate to any std so i m puzzled!? i also have what i thought was joggers nipple? very itchy nipple and also my face sometimes has dry patches on the eyelids and near the hair receding line? It has been going on for the last 3 months and as i m still in China and not a native speaker, i can t really find any treatment or diagnosis. please help?

Answer: HIT hank for asking to ChatDoctorI can understand this, these are two different conditions and that might not be due to unsafe intercourse, but this could be some allergic rash might have developed at the same time in two different areas, just wait till few more days the chances of getting alright on its own is likely, if this does not go away, then you can use \"Tab Levocetrizine 10 mg three times in day\" hope this information helps you, have a nice day.


Question: Hi, I was just at the dentist and they discovered a black area on the left lower jaw area below my teeth and they called me back and said I should go get a CT scan. I am 23 years old and otherwise healthy, is cancer the only thing this could be? I had a root canal re done last year on that same side but this black area isnt underneath that tooth it is along the other ones next to it.

Answer: Hi and welcome to Chat Doctor. Thank you for your quarry. Cancer is the less common thing that could be. Tooth tumors are rare especially in your age, but it must be ruled out of course. It can be any benign mass, abscess, tooth tissue, neuroma, or calcification. CT would show exact size and signs of infiltration but i don't think it would be serious. Even if this is, it can be surgical managed. Wish you good health.


Question: Good Morning,When i was cleaning toilet,I have mixed Harpic and Bleach almost 250 Ml,It created  a  fume and i exposed in it,almost 3 hrs i was sneezing and coughing and felt dizziness,Now its almost one moth over,But still i am sneezing ang coughing in the morning and night time with heavily clogged nose and extreme amouunt of puss/cougChatDoctores from nose as well.Is it a disease caused by the exposure.Kindly let me know.

Answer: Hello, Thanks for the query to Chat Doctor. Forum. I will try to explain to you that how this occurs. When there was fume (smoke) due to reaction of bleach +Harris, it entered in your lungs through inhalation, and you developed allergy. This fume was a predisposing factor, otherwise your lungs were already sensitive to allergy. Due to this allergy there develops, coughing, sneezing, tears from eyes, red eyes, nasal discharge, itching in eyes and over face. Due to these symptoms you got infection and this produces expectoration (phlegm or pus in your words). Please don't worry, be tension free, this sort of allergy is very common. Consult a physician and take treatment, once alright (cure), forget, again allergy take treatment. Antihistamine + bronchodilator helps in this type of condition. If infection than take antibiotics. Good luck.


Question: Hi, I am 19 year old and have been mastubrating since the age of 8. I am a bit light weight for my age and also, my back pains a lot. Is it due to mastubration? Cause i have a healthy diet and was born very healthy. And how should I overcome these effects.

Answer: Degree understand your concerns went through your details. I suggest you not to worry much. Masturbation i not sin or is dangerous. Masturbation cannot make you sick or unhealthy. It is natural and even animals do it. In saying that you started masturbation at the age of 8 is a bit exaggerating. Puberty is attained after around 11. Masturbation before that cannot produce the desired result. Secondly, Masturbation cannot make you thin. But the anxiety associated with it can make you thin. If you are able to take proper nutritious and healthy food, then you should not be thin. Inspire, if you are thin, either you have some anxiety disorders or some wasting diseases like anemia. Consult a doctor to diagnose. For psychological or sexological counseling visit http


Question: I HAVE GONE THROUGH LAB TEST ,THE RESULT SERUM T.CHOLESTEROL IS 229mgs/dl AND SERUM TRIGLYCERIDES IS 304gms/dl what kind of treatment shall i follow to control the cholesterol in my body what are the steps to be followed, pl mail me sir.                                                ThanksK.Ganeshmurthy

Answer: Hi Mr Ganeshmurthy After going through your reports, my opinion is as follows1. Your cholesterol is borderline high, and your triglycerides are high.2.  High lipids can affect the blood pressure, so needs to be controlled.3. You can discuss with your consulting doctor regarding stations and other lipid lowering agents, their dosage to control lipids.4. Exercise on a regular basis to control weight as well as to stay fit.5. Cut down on oil rich foods, junk food. Have diet rich in fibers, proteins and lots of fruits and vegetables. 6. Make necessary lifestyle modifications like avoiding stress, practicing yoga/ meditation. Take care


Question: I have been on the birth control Kelnor 1/35 for a few years now and it has work great. Just this past month, my doctor without telling me put me on Zovia 1/35. I read that these two are similar but I am now noticing my thoughts upsetting me, over thinking, and thinking my feelings have changed for someone or something when just a week ago when I first took this new pill, I was fine. This does not feel like myself and I am becoming very overwhelmed and upset.  Do you think it is because of the switch?

Answer: Hi. Thanks for asking in Chat Doctor. Both Tenor and Movie contain equal amounts of Ethinodiol acetate and Ethanol estradiol. The acceptability of oral contraceptive preparations in various individuals differ from each other. Therapeutically both preparations are found to be equally effective. According to surveys conducted, the order of side effects reported by people using Tenor 35 is nausea, bloating, anxiety, breast pain and depression whereas for Movie 35 the order is depression, anxiety, bloating, dizziness and breast pain. Since both are hormonal preparations, these side effects are expected. The symptoms of depression you have, is suggestive of movie. Although it takes some time for a person to get adjusted to any new preparation of medication when you switch over from one brand to the other, if these symptoms continue or become severe, then you should consult your treating


Question: Hi, My brother goes angioplasty at the age of 33 years at May-2010. Now he is feeling pain now after 5 month. He consult with doctor, he is saying nothing to worry. Please advice how we can know how much he has block edge know...pls suggest, this is urgent.

Answer: Hello! Welcome and thank you for asking on Chat Doctor! I passed carefully through your question and would explain that considering his past medical history, it is important to investigate for possible coronary artery disease. For this reason, I recommend consulting with his cardiologist and performing some tests


Question: Isn t it true that sharp pain in one s right shoulder could indicate parasites in the small and/or large intestines (i.e. amoebic dysentery) which could be seen by the host (amoebic cysts and trophozoites...all stages of development) in one s stool, cause bloating, gas, stomach distention, terrible abdominal pain, diarrhea, constipation and progressively get worse if not treated with the appropriate antibiotics and eventually cause the death of the host? Fact or Fiction

Answer: Hi, There is no direct relationship between intestinal infection and shoulder pain. Reasons for both are entirely different. The intestinal infection will lead to diarrhea, bloating and indigestion but not shoulder pain. Reason for shoulder pain may be muscular pain or joint abnormalities. A detailed clinical examination is needed to assess the cause of shoulder pain. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.


Question: i have had many signs and symptoms of pregnancy like a lte period getting sick the veins on my sides are very noticable and on my arms and chest and legs but i took a test it came back negative and then i was a week late but after that i got my period. is there any way i could still be pregnant? i also have leg cramps and pains in my arms too

Answer: Hallow Dear, The first cardinal symptom of pregnancy to appear is missing a period. All other symptoms like nausea & vomiting, frequent urination and the breast symptoms like engorgement with tenderness, dark discoloration of nipples & areola with widening of areola and secretions through nipples appear subsequently, usually 10 to 15 days after missed period. Though you had some vague symptoms, ultimately you have got your menses. Probably after having the menses, the symptoms also might have vanished. When in doubt, urine examination for pregnancy gives clue. That also is negative in your case. So Madam, no missed period and pregnancy test negatives confirms that you are not pregnant.


Question: I normally get panic attacks, but decided to learn to control them without the use of medication . Besides that, I Always feel dizzy, like im floating.. the room will spin out of no where like I got up to fast.. it happens everywhere, Especially if im in crowded or loud places. I hardly drink water. im 5 7 130lbs male. Sometimes, I feel like im so full and its hard to breath , as if my lungs are full of bricks, and I have only a tiny space for air. I get tired really easy.. but I work from home.. on the computer. I don t drink or smoke . ... I am just tired of being dizzy all the time.. I don t feel myself at all and havent been for 8 moths. I do, however have alot of stress in my life as well. any help ?

Answer: HI. I AM Chat Doctor. I WOULD LIKE TO HELP. THE WAY TO EXCLUDE ANY MAJOR UNDERLYING MEDICAL PROBLEM IS TO VISIT YOUR FAMILY PHYSICIAN WHO CAN GIVE YOU A PROPER PHYSICAL EXAMINATION AND RUN A FEW BASIC TESTS TO EXCLUDE ANEMIA, DIABETES ETC. A AUDIOLOGICAL EVALUATION IS ALSO NECESSARY IN YOUR CASE. IF YOUR JOB IS A SEDENTARY TYPE YOU MUST ALSO RULE OUT CERVICAL SPONDYLITIS. A LITTLE MORE EXERCISE CAN ALSO HELP BOOST YOUR \"HAPPY HORMONES\" AND HELP YOU FEEL BETTER. A VISIT TO A QUALIFIED CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST CAN HELP YOU DEAL WITH YOUR PANIC ATTACKS AND STRESSORS. SINCE IT HAS BEEN 8 MONTHS IT IS NOT ADVISABLE TO IGNORE YOUR SYMPTOMS ANYMORE. TAKE CARE BYE


Question: For the past 8 months or so when I start my menstrual period a lump appears in my lower left abdomen. And the lump is very painful at times. Sometimes it hurts so bad I cannot walk. I went to two different ers and they said it was hematomen. If its a bruise then why is it reoccurring? Can you please help me find out what is reallywrong and how I csn get it treated

Answer: Hi and thanks for the query, I am sorry to suggest again that this needs another clinical evaluation. It could really be a hematoma. However, it could be very interesting and informative doing an ultrasound. This would give an idea of the echo structure and borders of the mass. This is important because if there is an associated cyst, it would be important that it should be removed. A possible infection of this mass of hematoma must be considered. Aspirating the mass content and running some tests for infections and inflammation to me shall be very appropriate. I suggest you consult you primary care physician again for reevaluation. Thanks and best regards, Luchuo, MD.


Question: My husband started taking Maetanx about 3 - 4 weeks ago, which was prescribed by his dr.  He had not been taking any meds for neuropathy at the time because so far none of the meds he was prescribed helped.  Now, the pain seems to be worse than when he was not taking anything for the pain.  Should we call the dr. and stop taking Metanx or give it more time.  When I talked to  at nurse at the company where we had to get the prescription she said it could take 3 weeks to 4 months for it to take affect but should it get worse before it gets better?

Answer: Welcome to Chat Doctor. Metanx is a medical food made that contains L-methylfolate (vitamin B9), methylcobalamin (vitamin B12) and pyridoxine 5-phosphate (vitamin B6). It is a vitamin B supplement. Treatment is on right way for neuropathy, but you have to be watchful for your sugar level. You have to take oral as well as intramuscular NSAID to subside pain. Gabapentin will be useful. Ask your doctor about your pain and further management.


Question: I am a 35 year old male and own a landscape business for 2 years, for the last 6 weeks It has become difficult for me to get through half the day without becoming exhausted (low energy that comes on fairly sudden, slightly shakey, foggy mind kinda like im in a dream) I have cut my hours back and have had employees make up the difference, thinking maby I am working to hard, energy still cuts out half way thru the day. I have had some life changes (seperation, moving to new house, extra debt to support expanding business)but nothing I would consider unmanageable. Any advice? I have setup a health exam with my doctor in September? Could this be physical or phsychological? Any advice from past experiencees?Thanks!

Answer: Hello welcome to Ask A Doctor service. I have reviewed your query and here is my advice. You have to rule out anemia first by he estimation. I suggest you to investigate with serum calcium, serum sodium, potassium estimation, serum TSH estimation for primary work up. Got, Sept, urea, creatinine also investigated as toxic metabolite accumulation also sometime can lead fatigue. You are absolutely right in a way that fatigue can be from exhaustion, overwork, lack of sleep etc. Revert with above reports to guide you further. Hope I have solved your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.


Question: i have  friend that was bitten in his calf about 2 weeks ago by a dog. at first it swelled up and he was barely able to walk on it.  he has been home treating it with antibiotic ointment and peroxide, and bandages. the holes are still open and parts of it are yellowish.  what would you suggest?

Answer: Hello, Welcome to Chat Doctor, As your friend was bitten by the dog and following which there is an infection of the wound leading to yellowish discharge following which your doctor has prescribed the antibiotic cream along with HY Chat Doctor. Rabies is 100 % fatal, but it is 100% preventable by proper and adequate treatment. I would suggest your friend to follow1. Take antirabies vaccine as per the regimen2. Oral Antibiotics like Tab Autoclave 625 mg, twice daily for five days.3. Wound


Question: Hi, I have taken a solid hit to my lower back on my left side (I think my kidney) it has been painful for 2 weeks now and is sore mostly when I bend or apply tension to the muscles in that area. I have not urinated blood Improvement in past 2 weeks seems minimal Please advise

Answer: Hello, Thank you for writing to Chat Doctor about your query, Brief Answer -Treatment for lower back pain depends upon the patients history and the type and severity of pain, as you described I explained below meditation. Explained Answer -The vast majority of lower back pain cases get better within six weeks without surgery, and lower back pain exercises are almost always part of a treatment plan. If pain persists or worsens, more involved diagnostic and surgical procedures may be recommended.  Medications


Question: yes pleaseiv had broken / abcess teeth since fourteen early fifteen now im twenty three and tooth decay has spread progressively facial swelling and jaw pains have have also been an issue  and I always dealt with it my self impoverished family nother story nother time as I say but all ways self medicated scalpels or suringes grew up on farm animal supplies and had a small knowledge of veterinarian procedures dealing with abcess and lesions and felt I could deal with it but in the last few years most molars or wisdom teeth have gone aswell even with more than average brushing the entire time have about three exposed pulp cores and the lumps below ear have always rehealed once opened and or squeezed out by hand some times with great strain on my hands \"poped like pimple\" but scar tissue gets ever harder and larger about the size of half dollar easily noticed just below ear right next to upper jaw bone could these things berelatedif so should an er dr be able to see this?

Answer: Hi, After going through the entire description, I am of the opinion that the cause for your pain is infection. A tooth abscess won't resolve without treatment. Even if the abscess disperses, bursts or Chat Doctor.  Antibiotics kill the germs responsible for tooth abscesses, helping the body to repair the tooth and bone. If an abscess erupts by itself, warm salt-water rinses will soothe, help clean the mouth and encourage


Question: im sick. ive been sick for weeks. two weeks ago, i went to the doctor and they said i had a sinus infection. they perscribed amoxcillin and i took it until my perscription was done. but now, ive been continually sick... right now, my left side of my neck hurts bad and my hearing is funny in my left ear. plus, ill get occassionall really bad pains in my head, like a severe headache

Answer: Hi welcome to Chat Doctor. Here you might have persistent sinus infection.... First para nasal sinus x-ray done for rule out sinusitis..... Nasal examination by rhinos copy done for rule out nasal polyp.... Here for congestive symptom antihistamines Chat Doctor. ... Steam inhalation taken with eucalyptus added in water... If cause not clear MRI or CT scan of sinus need for detail investigation... If you are immunocompromised then aspergilli or mucormycosis might rule out ....this investigation helpful for it... If needed endoscopic


Question: Hi, may I answer your health queries right now ?  Please type your query here I am 65 years old and for the past 12 months I have had a persistant cough that is quite forceful. It makes my ees water and I am quite short of breathe for a period of time after.  The secretions I clear and thick with bubbles in it.  I am also very tired.  Please can you give me some insight?

Answer: Thanks for your question on Chat Doctor. I can understand your concern. You are having chronic cough, expectoration which are difficult to cough out and breathlessness. All these symptoms are characteristic of bronchitis. So get done chest x-ray and PFT (Pulmonary Function Test). Chest x-ray is needed to rule out other lung diseases. PFT is must for the diagnosis of bronchitis. You will mostly improve with inhaled bronchodilators (formoterol or albuterol), N acetyl cysteine (NAC) and bucolic with expectorant syrup. Hope I have solved your query. I will be happy to help you further. Wish you good health. Thanks.


Question: My grandmother who is 87 had an injury to her nose as result of falling out of her wheelchair.  She did lose alot of blood due to blood thinner.  This accident ocurred 2 weeks ago.  She is doing better but her H&H levels are low 8.2 was 8.7 2 days ago and 25.2%   They want to send her for blood transfusions but I have read risks and not confident this is the way to go.  They are taking her blood daily and they took it this morning hence the lower levels and they started her back on coumedin therapy too.  Can her H&H levels be lower in the am?

Answer: Hi, Thanks for asking. Based on your query, my opinion is as follows.1. Both reduced hemoglobin and reduced hematocrit indicates anemia.2. However, 8.2g% is not significant, unless she has associated co-morbidities like cardiac failure.3. If she has cardiac problems or any breathing difficulty, she will require packed red cell transfusion to avoid further complications. Daily blood Chat Doctor.  Continue all medications. She needs to be on blood thinner to avoid heart attack or stroke. Hope it helps. Any further queries, happy to help again.


Question: Hi ! Am 29 had endo yrs Severe period pain every month I never much of a life whilest on my period cant work eat or do anything to help myself ,nothing worked , found out I had pulmonary Endometriosis had surgery on my lungs few months ago then 2 weeks ago I had a laparscopy treatment for my end and Fibroid cyst , been married for 5 yrs we really want to start a family now can I get pregnant?

Answer: HelloThanks for posting your query. When the doctor performed the laparoscopy, I would think that they would have done a test at the same time to see if the fallopian tubes were all right or not. If the doctor said that the tubes were patent(that is, not blocked), there is good chance of your getting pregnant. If your periods are regular, and you have monthly cycles, it would mean that you are ovulating, and that would mean a good chance of pregnancy as well. However, if you don't get pregnant in the next one year, do go back and see a gynecologist with interest in fertility. The doctor would order a few other tests and advice you if you would need help in getting pregnant like IVF. Best wishes.


Question: Hi, I am going through a severe back pain. Actually really dont know where is the pain ? about 3 years back I was performing n i fell from d back stage from that day onwards I have this pain.i have consulted few doctors but no one could find what was the problem,all they gave was a vaccination for pain relief.some times the pain increases few days before i get my periods.the pain is so severe that I cant stand, walk or sit.

Answer: Welcome to Chat Doctor as you have mentioned that the pie started after a fall may be it is due to some injury sustained that time leading to some problem in lumbosacral and dorsolumbar joints please consult orthopedic surgery and get a check-up pain increasing few days before periods may due to problems related to pelvic organs' uterus/ovaries.gynecological check up will be helpful pain during periods may be relieved by colonel tablet 1 tab 3 times after meals.severe backache not related to periods may be helped by powerless tab hope you be all right soon


Question: my son who is 4 and about 38lbs. has been complaining of a stomach ache right around his navel and has thrown up several times( all liquid looking vomit). He has complained some about a headache and at one point it felt as though he had a slight fever though has been hard to tell his whole body has felt hot most of the day. When I gave him a bath to try and help him feel better he got out of the tub with teeth chattering and his whole body shaking like he was freezing but he felt warm to the touch! What is wrong with him. I have given him fever reducer.

Answer: Hi... Thank you for consulting in Chat Doctor. Fever of few days without any localizing signs could as well a viral illness. Usually rather than fever, what is more important is the activity of the child, in between 2 fever episodes on the same day. If the kid is active and playing around when there is no fever, it is probably viral illness and it doesn't require antibiotics at all. Once viral fever comes it will there for 4-7 days. So do not worry about duration if the kid is active. Regards -


Question: My brother-in-law aged 61 years old diagnosed with 2 blocks in the heart and also a block in right way of passage to kidney and advised for bypass surgery. He has the history of Hypertention, Diabetics for a decade also suffers from gastric ulcers. Some of our well wishers contemplating on going for KEELEYs method of treatment to avoid surgery. Can you please give details about this method and how far it is successful as an alternative to bypass surgery. Thank you very much. P. Srinivasulu / INDIA.

Answer: Hello thank you for posting here. I have gone through your description. Since he has two blocks in the heart arteries, and he is advice bypass, the right choice is to go ahead with bypass surgery. I don't know any therapy named KELLEY, but I suppose you are talking about ch elation therapy. This therapy is of no benefit for the patient. The blocks in the heart artery are embedded inside the heart vessel and any amount of medication or therapy cannot decrease it to make it vanish. Medications can only help to stop progression of the block. Definitive way to treat critical heart blockages is an angioplasty or bypass surgery. Had you been my patient my advice would be to go ahead with bypass? Bypass surgery requires a stay of 7- 10 days approx in the hospital. Patient can start walking usually by day 5 after surgery. It requires a recovery period of 20 -25 days, but the long term results of bypass are very good with patients having a good quality of life. Gastric ulcers can be treated with long term antacids. Gastric ulcers are not a contraindication for surgery. Wishing you good health thank you


Question: hi i m 18 and female and i had sex the 25th and 26th of December..i got kind of scared at first thinking i could have gotten pregnant but once my period came on the 3rd of January my worries disappeared. I thought it was a little strange that it was only about 3-4 days long..normally mine are around 5-6 with spotting afterwards and leakage with tampons no matter the strength..this time however there was no spotting or leaking whatsoever..but i didn t think much of it now about the 17th i noticed a dull cramp in my lower stomach that would come and go and it did this til the 20th, on the 20th the cramp has stayed and increased, i did noticed that i ve been eating alot even when i m not hungry for the past week and my stomach looks bloated and my breasts are tender and i ve been urinating ALOT and usually i only go about 2-3 a day now i don t even have to drink anything and ill go 7 times a day easily if not more..pregnant? or not? PLEASE HELP IMMEDIATELY.....

Answer: Hello, If you were due on the 3rd of Jan, and you got your period then you are not pregnant. If your got your period before you date then there is a possibility of implantation bleeding. The rest of your symptoms sound like you have a UTI. First take e test to rule out pregnancy. Then you will need antibiotics for a few days to clear up the infection. Chat Doctor. Avoid sex till you are clean. Hygiene is very important.


Question: hi, i have just got bitten to my year old dog 10 min ago. this morning he was seeming like he was panting and panting and breathing very heavily. We gave him water but he still did it. Now the bite feels tingily and its like its beating.I already put poroxide on. Do you know if this is normal or what to do?

Answer: Hello, Welcome to Chat Doctor, Rabies is a disease which is transmitted by dog bite which is 100% fatal, but it is 100% preventable by proper and adequate treatment. As you were bitten by a dog which has led to bleeding from the site according to WHO categories it is categorized into Cat III, which requires following treatment1. Wash the wound thoroughly with soap and water.2. Active immunization with anti rabies vaccine on days 0,3,7,14 and 28.3. Passive immunization with rabies immunoglobulin around the wound.4. In TT, 0.5 ml, I'm. Thank you.


Question: pcod irregular periods 37x31mm cyst in LT ovary on11july its my first day. 7x7mm inRTovary and 11x12mm inLT ovary on22 july 12day. 11x12mm inRTovary and 8x9mm inLT ovary on27july 17day. 1 what does this mean? 2 IS ovulation happen this time? 3 slow and late growth of follicle as in my case .ISany chance of getting preganant? 4 what to do now? 5 plssssssssssss answer soon

Answer: Hi welcome to Chat Doctor hi Joshi., the above report stating the measurement of the largest cyst is 37by31 in left ovary... .the other follicles are of different sizes respect to the duration. Even though many follicles develop, only one may ovulate or many at a time hence fertilization will be disturbed... you can have coitus with your husband.... and then after a week you need to follow up by USG. Hope I have answered your question. Take care.


Question: I had a wisdom tooth extracted nearly 3 weeks ago. unfortunately some of the block went into my jaw muscle and I now have trismus. More alarming though is that my facial muscles feel very much weekened and smiling is an effort. Also I have had twitching above my lip and up cheek and under eye. I am very concerned as I am a music teacher. please help

Answer: Thanks for your query, I have gone through your query. The twitching over the facial muscles and Erasmus can be because of the nerve injury to facial nerve while injecting the local anesthesia. The Erasmus is because of the injury to the muscles of mastication while injecting the local anesthesia. Nothing to worry, the twitching will come down gradually over a week. You can take nerve regenerating Chat Doctor.  For the Erasmus, you can take a muscle relaxant like chlorzoxazone. I hope my answer will help you, take care.


Question: Why does husband have saggy balls that hang low and can t seem to last long when having sex? Seems like he gets off within 5 minutes and he claims he can t or don t know how to last longer, even though I ve told him some techniques to try but still says he can t and/or don t know how. His balls aren t full and firm either like my ex s were. Also have been trying to conceive for a long time and have not had any success, what is going on??? How to know if he is even ejaculating sperm and not just semen/fluid, what is the difference. Healthy sperm should be white or more yellowish??? Really need some help please......

Answer: HelloThanks for query. The scrotal sac differs from person to person and has no relation to conception. The problem of premature ejaculation and less libido are most of the time mind related and due to what is called as performance anxiety. Following measure will help you to boost up his confidence and getting good erection. And delay ejaculation.1) Practice regular exercise for 45 minutes followed by meditation for 1/2 an hour in the morning.2) Take high protein diet rich in vegetables and fruits and vitamin A, C,D, E.and Zinc3)Take anti oxidants like Almonds 5-6 every day.4) Avoid alcohol and smoking. He may take Sidewall (Viagra)as on demand to have sustainable erection to have enjoyable sex. As regards conception get his semen analysis done to rule out any abnormality. Chat Doctor.


Question: My kid is 2 years 11 months old.. She frequently getting cold, cough and ear infection.... I vusited doctor 4 times.. In these 4 months.. Even after using antibiotics it is not completely cured.So i am looking for good medicine for my kid.She is going to day care.i never face this issue before this winter.

Answer: HelloRepeated cough and cold is more commonly occur due to viral infection or allergic disorder. But if it is due to bacterial infection(diagnosed after thorough clinical examination and investigation) immunodeficiency must be ruled out. If fever is not associated each time with other symptoms and there is positive family history of allergic disorder;it is more suggestive of allergic in origin. Most of the time upper respiratory symptoms are associated with ear problem, irrespective of its viral, bacterial or allergic. In allergic disorder montelukast/levocetrizine syrup along with nasal Chat Doctor. I would suggest you to consult your pediatrician for proper evaluation and to find out whether it is really bacterial infection(for which antibiotic is needed) or something else. Regards


Question: Hi,I have a toothache pain in my one of my bottom teeth  no dentist open for 2 days can you please recommend best pain killers to take i plan on visiting my pharmacist who may be able to give me emergency antibiotics tomorrow  I have ponstan for my migraines available at home not sure this may be effective

Answer: Hello, Welcome Thanks for consulting Chat Doctor, I have gone through your query, as you have pain in your tooth it can be due to caries or due periodontal problem. Consult dentist and go for investigations IOWA X-ray done if it is carious then go for restoration or Root canal treatment and if periodontal problem then go for Scaling and root planning.  You can take painkiller for temporary relief One tablet Diploma twice daily for 3 days One Capsule vitamin B complex once daily for three daysConsult dentist and go for treatment. Hope this will help you.


Question: I have been suffering from a herniated disc for the past 3 years now.  3 months ago I suffered some excruciating pain from this condition.  The pain went away after about 24hrs but ever since then I have been walking with a slight limp, I have very little strength in my right calf and my lower leg swells up every day after walking for about an hour.

Answer: Hello, If This disc bulge is not compressing nerve root, so conservative treatment may work. If symptoms persist then surgical decompression may help. Medication like methylcobalamine and pregabalin will reduce pain which can be started consulting your doctor. You can focus on spine extension exercises. Some exercises which can be done include-Spine extension exercises, Lying on your stomach flat lift leg 6 inches from ground, do it for other leg. Now lift both hand and leg simultaneously, 6 inches off the ground and supposition for around 10 breathes. Core stabilizing spine exercises will help. You may consult physiotherapist for guidance. He may start TENS, or ultrasound which is helpful in your case. If not relieved you can take epidural injection. Hope this helps. Wish you a speedy recovery.  If you find this answer helpful do not hesitate to rate this answer at end of discussion. Take care.


Question: very last tooth on the left side bottom had broken also had a cavity it my dentis repair cavity and file tooth down next step will be a crown well i have been experiencing servere pain, June 21 toke two ADVILS right after my stomach became upset chin became numb and little tingling on lower bottom left lip, dentist took exray yesterday and told me my gum is infected put me on AMOX TR-K CLV 875-125MG TAB, I go back on june 25th If infection clear a little dentist is going to open tooth up and put pain medicine down in tooth  is this a good idea.

Answer: Hi. Can understand your concern. As per your complaint pain in tooth after cavity filling and preparation of tooth for placing a crown clearly indicates that the nerves of the tooth have been opened up due to preparation of cavity to retain the filling causing inflammation and condition is known as Chronic Irreversible Pulpits . You should consult your dentist and get an X-Ray done, and it will definitely show exposed nerves and blood vessels present in central portion of tooth in a small chamber known as Pulp. The treatment is first to get the filling removed under local anesthetic followed by Root Canal Treatment and the advised antibiotic AMOS TR-K CLV 875-125MG TAB twice daily, along with it a painkiller is to be taken to relieve pain as antibiotics can reduce infection but to relieve pain painkiller is needed. You can take Ibuprofen for moderate pain but in case of severe pain Motorola or Tramadol can be taken. Hope this information helps. Thanks and regards... Chat Doctor. .


Question: Hi iI have been diagnoed with thymic cancer, I do not like to take the drugs for pain that are prescribed,as they have side effects that are harsh.So instead i have been taking ibuprophen .for abot 4 months ,as dosage recommended, I have beenexperiencing respitory issues lately and wonder if this is the cause.I have been doing radiation and chemo treaments ,it has shown improvement in all aspects except for my breathing .I read an article on cleveland clinic facebook this mourning that said this might be why,,,...Thoughts  on this please?                                                                                                                                                                              ths   ccsc

Answer: Thy mic cancer causes respiratory distress. After a thy mic tumor is found and tests have been done to get a sense of its Factors important in choosing a treatment include the type and stage of the cancer, whether it is respectable (able to be completely removed with surgery), and whether you have any other serious medical problems. Because thy mic cancer is rare, it is often hard to accurately predict the effectiveness of treatment strategies, and in many cases the best way to treat this cancer is still not preselecting a treatment plan is an important decision, and you should take the time to think about all of your choices. The main treatments for thymus cancer are


Question: My husband had a spinal cord injury in Sept. 2013 which left him paralyzed and unable to urinate on his own for one month. He is now walking with a cane and can urinate on his own but still not properly. He is on Flomax to help. He is also on water pills because his legs will swell up. An emg showed nerve damage. My question is his shins are very shiny and they occasionally blister or split open even when his legs do not look swollen. This is a great concern to me. Even though he does not work or walk around like he used to, he is certainly not sitting around all day like he was when he was first injured. Any ideas?

Answer: Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor .com I am Chat Doctor. Mariano Into Bruno Mascaras. I have gone through your query with diligence and would like you to know that I am here to help you. The Blisters can be due to 1. Autonomic Neuropathy2. Vitamin Deficiency3. Involvement of Autonomic Pathways in Subclinical and Lab Evaluation is needed to Narrow down the diagnosis and start appropriate treatment. Please consult a Neurosurgeon at the earliest Hope you found the answer helpful. If you need any clarification / have doubts / have additional questions / have follow-up questions, then please do not hesitate in asking again. I will be happy to answer your questions. In the future, for continuity of care, I encourage you to contact me directly in Chat Doctor at http


Question: I am a 48 years married woman. My USG shows liver is enlarged with heterogenous parenchymal echopattern. Intra hepatic billary channels are not dialated. No focal solid or cystic SOL seen. Lever span at mid clavicular line is 15.3 cm. what does it mean?

Answer: HelloYour findings suggests mildly enlarged liver and heterogeneous parenchymal echo pattern may indicate liver parenchymal disease. It may be due to many causes like hepatitis, metabolic disorder etc. You may need routine hologram, viral markers, random blood sugar, liver and renal function test, lipid profile, urine RE/ME. Liver biopsy may be needed after evaluation. You may need few medicines after evaluation. Get well soon. Take Care Chat Doctor.


Question: Hi! I just changed into my pajamas and noticed that I have many (somewhere around 15) small bruises on the insides and backs of my thighs. In the past few days, I have done nothing that might cause these. It s happened a few times in the past, but not often. A few days ago, I started having a sore throat and I was wondering if there could be any corrolation. I cannot remember if the last time this happened was during a time at which I had a sore throat. So far, no unexplained bruising has occured on my stomach, back, chest , etc and very rarely on my arms (though I assume that it s only unexplained because I don t remember hitting something). However, the bruises which have just appeared are not in any place I would bump into. I m a 21 year old otherwise healthy female. The only concering aspect of my medical history is that my mother, my half-sister, and my grandfather on my father s side have all died from cancer . Two cases of melanoma and one of colon cancer. Could the bruising be a result of my sore throat? Or should I be seeing a doctor?

Answer: Hi!welcome to Chat Doctor!SPONTANEOUS BRUISES point towards some bleeding disorder, coagulation defect or thrombocytopenia that is reduced platelet count. Certain viral infections that cause sore throat may also cause platelet to fall resulting in spontaneous bleeding. They are not related to cancer, but you must see a doctor get examined and tested for platelet count and coagulation profile. Hope this will help you!take care!


Question: Hi, wondering whether or not you think its possible my pregnancy is still viable? Ive neever had any real symptoms other than going to the toilet more. My LMP was 22 October, I did my first pregnancy test on 26th December, strong positive, did another one one new years eve with a clearblue test and it said 1-2 weeks pregnant and said to add 2 weeks on for how doctor would date it. Did yet another test due to no symptoms on 14th January which said 3+ weeks and again to add 2 weeks for doctors dates. I paid for a private scan on the 21st January and they believed by the size it was only 5 weeks 3 days, 10days on and still no crmaping,no bleeding and no symptoms?

Answer: Hello, and I hope I can help you today. There are two possibilities of what could be going on with your pregnancy. If you really did conceive back in October, your pregnancy should be about 12 weeks. This would have been found on the ultrasound examination that you had, but instead the fetus measured only five weeks three days. At five weeks it is not normal to see fetal heartbeat so that is not used in the consideration to make a diagnosis. However, it is possible that you conceived later in the cycle after your. In October. If you actually conceived in late November early December it is still possible that the fetus could be viable and that is just younger than it should be by your dates. So the way to tell the difference would be to get another ultrasound examination and approximately two weeks; by then you should see some evidence of the fetal heartbeat if the pregnancy is normal. Contrary to popular belief, the majority of women do not have pregnancy symptoms. The most reliable sign of pregnancy is a missed menstrual cycle. Furthermore, judging the number of weeks of pregnancy on a urine tests is extremely inaccurate. Pregnancy tests are designed to pick up the hormone Chat Doctor from that whicChatDoctores out in your urine. However, your urine can be diluted by different amounts of water depending upon what time in the day you tested and how much water you Chat Doctor.  Most urine pregnancy tests ask that you use your first morning urine, which has the most concentrated sample, however, even within those restrictions there is a large margin of error. So I would advise, in your situation, that you repeat the ultrasound examination in another 2 to 3 weeks. In the meantime take good care of yourself for the pregnancy by


Question: Bruised and torn muscles around ribs in auto accident. X-rays showed no fracture or break. Pain is pretty bad.  Does pain radiate to breasts.  When bending which I cannot avoid sometimes I get a shooting burning feeling in the breast on the side that the ribs are bruised

Answer: Thanks for your questioning my opinion you had tissue / muscle injury following that accident as a pulmonologist would like to recheck the X-ray of chest to see if any injury is thereof everything goes fine I would prescribe some analgesics, muscle relaxants and some enzymes so that healing is fast no need to worry that much, I know it's a matter of concern visit a pulmonologist, he can guide youthanksfeel free to ask more questions


Question: HELLO i AM 33 YRS OF AGE, IM 510 AND WEIGH 225 POUNDS. I HAVE AN INFECTED WISDOM TOOTH AND IM CURRENTLY IN THE ER AWAITING TO SEE THE DOC. I AM ALLERGIC TO PENICILLIN, WHAT OTHER MEDS ARE OUT THERE THAT WILL WORK JUST AS GOOD AS PENICILLIN FOR MY SITUATION.

Answer: Hello, Thanks for consulting ChatDoctorRead your query as you have infected wisdom tooth infection in tooth can be due to some reason like if tooth is carious or decayed tooth with Periapical pathology may be Periapical Abscess or due to Impacted or Partially erupted tooth with Periodontal abscess. If you have infected tooth I will suggest you to consult dentist and go for its treatment Root canal treatment or Extraction of tooth.  In meantime you can do warm saline rinses, you can take Antibiotic like Ofloxacine by consulting with your doctor and Analgesic like Paracetamol or Diploma if you are not allergic with vitamin B supplement. Hope this will help you. Wishing you good health Regards,


Question: I brought my son home from nursery this evening and noticed a red spot on his right leg inner thigh since then i have changed my son again and have noticed there are several more appearing some with yellow heads on theyve grown quiet big n look angry red

Answer: HI...by what you quote I feel that it might be an n allergy like a simple urticaria or a rapidly spreading pyoderma as you quote that there are lots of yellow heads appearing. But I want to stress on something very important - Skin conditions are best diagnosed only after seeing directly. I suggest you to upload photographs of the same on this website, so that I can guide you scientifically. Hope my answer was helpful for you.  I am happy to help any time. Further clarifications and consultations on Chat Doctor are welcome. If you do not have any clarifications, you can close the discussion and rate the answer. Wish your kid good health.


Question: Started out with burning sensation after ejaculation and then progressed to burning sensation on and off with slight pains in the penis and groin area that come and go that seemed to be relieved by ibuprofen . also have more frequent urges to pee. The burning after ejaculation is gone but still have the feeling of having to pee constantly.

Answer: Hello appreciate your concernLooking at your description this could be signs of ITII would like further information to help you better libelous age, sex and relevant medical history like diabetes or other metabolic diseaseSince how long you have this problem? I would advise you to consult your doctor for battery of investigations like urine microscopy as well as urine culture and sensitivity testy may require a course of antibiotics depending upon the reportage plenty of fluids which will flush off the urogenital tractMaintain good hygieneThanks for your question wish you a speedy recovery Best wishes


Question: Hi, My boyfriend has been having stomach pains the past few days, he thought he ate something bad, but now hes unsure. He hasn t really been eating the past few days because the food doesn t seem like it wants to stay down. He feels like he may want to throw up but doesn t, its like he may want to use the bathroom but doesn t really get the urge

Answer: Hi ! Good morning. I am Chat Doctor answering your query. If I were your physician, I would advise your boyfriend for a general clinical examination of the abdomen, routine stool test for ova and cyst, a liver function test, and an ultrasound abdomen if considered essential by depending on the clinical and investigative finding. Till that I would advise him some anti-emetic, a proton pump inhibitor, a probiotic, and an anti-spasmodic if need be. He should also go for a high fiber diet and enough liquids if tolerated by him and completely avoid food from outside. Further management would depend on the clinical findings and investigation reports. I hope this information would help you in discussing with your family physician/treating doctor in further management of your problem. Please do not hesitate to ask in case of any further doubts. Thanks for choosing Chat Doctor to clear doubts on your health problems. Wishing you an early recovery. Chat Doctor.


Question: Im in a lot of pain in my stomach, abdominal pain, and chest pain! I woke up this morning with some swelling in my face, lips swollen! Since October 2008 Ive been having breathing problems, cause i was working around chemicals and fumes! I wa put off work in June 2009 and forgot one important thing my gallbladder was removed in August 2009 with gallstones in it and the doctors thought at that time that my liver and kidney was damaged as well due to the fact of how bad my gallbladder was! But Thank God my liver and kidney at that time was okay! Can someone try to explain to me or try to help me on whats going on with me! Ive been to a few doctors and I feel that no one shouldnt suffer like Im suffering!

Answer: HI. Noted the history of gall bladder removal and reports about your kidney and liver that they are normal. This is good news. Now


Question: hello recently I have developed a rather sharp pain above my naval. I have looked into a bacterial infection and have been cleaning it with alcohol and to no success. the pain has traveled and hurts in a 3 inch diameter above my groin and to the right a tad. I have also looked into an umbilical hernia but I am a bit skeptical, and I am not sure it is appendicitis.

Answer: Hello, Appendicitis is a high probability. The pain in appendicitis begins in the per umbilical region(that is around the naval) and then migrates to an area called as McBirney point that is at the junction of the medial 2/3rd and lateral 1/3rd of a line joining your naval with the anterior superior William spine. This area is roughly the same as you have mentioned. Further evaluation is needed. Blood counts, urine examination and ultrasound scan of the abdomen are required. In appendicitis the blood counts will be high, urine will be normal or show mild hematuria and USG abdomen will show an elongated or enlarged appendix. Treatment is mainly surgical, however in some rare mild cases, medical management with painkillers and antibiotics may be tried.


Question: My 9 year old daughter is complaining of chest pains.  She says that it feels like something is stuck in her chest. She is pretty healthy although I just took her to the doctor because in the last year there has been rapid weight gain.  She is 95 lbs whereas a year ago she was 68 lbs.  As of yesterday she is 55 inches tall.

Answer: Hi thanks for contacting Chat Doctor... Here your child complaining chest pain... As no specific symptoms like cough, fever etc. present chest x-ray done for investigation .... As she is a small child there might be foreign body ingestion that can lead symptoms .... Auscultation also done . According to cause treatment done ... If foreign body there removed through bronchoscopy if needed ... If no cause identifiable then chance of pain by muscular strain ... As your child gaining weight rapidly investigate for hypothyroidism .... Consult pediatrician for this.  . Take care ....


Question: my wife is in remission for lupus but is still on prednisilone.she now has adrenal fatigue,but due to taking prednisolone cant have her hormones tested.she has been told to up her prednisolone doseage full stop.she has osteoporosis and does not want to incresase her preds.

Answer: Good evening sir. It is very common problem that our body stops secreting natural steroids once we are taking it from outside on a long term basis. A Chat Doctor.  If she is not experiencing any problems like pigmentation, low blood pressure, low blood sugar, I am not too sure how increasing the steroid dose would help. Especially if she has osteoporosis one needs to be careful. If you could provide us with some insight on a


Question: What is he progression of mantle cell lymphoma? My 74 year old husband had only 2 treatments when the oncologist determined the treatment was not working...his platelets were 72 and his WBC was 358,000. They basically told him to go home and die. That was a month ago. He has become steadily weaker. He has an appetite, but cannot eat much at one sitting. He has edema in his feet. He is now complaining of a pain in his upper right quadrant; somewhere around his under arm and radiates to the back of his shoulder blades.We are totally clueless.

Answer: Thanks for your question on Chat Doctor. Mentle cell lymphoma is one of the most aggressive tumor known till day. It is resistant to chemotherapy and rapidly worsening in days only. In your husbands' case as he is having right sided back and chest pain, I think he is developing malignant effusion. So better to rule out this by chest x-ray. If effusion than pigtail catheter insertion will help him symptomatically. So get done chest x-ray and pigtail Chat Doctor.  Also discuss end of life issues with him. This will give him more support.


Question: Hi my left bottom wisdom tooth is coming through and painful but also my lymph nodes are swallen and soar Im sure its perconitus but I also have like a large patch on my cheek which looks like what I can only describe as acny like on my left cheek. , is this normal and can it be treat without a dentist

Answer: Hiwelcome to ChatDoctorduring the eruption of wisdom tooth it sometime cause pain. If the tooth is infected then it may lead to enlarge lymph node.  First get your OPG X-ray runabout patch, if its white then depends on weather its cheek bite, leukoplakia or candidiasis etc. Which can also be confirmed by seeing the patch. For both thing visit dentist. Meanwhile for wisdom tooth do warm saline gargles and can get painkiller. Thank you


Question: I have been having moderate headaches for quite some time - pain mainly in the back of the head - high on the left side. Is it worth an MRI? Pain meds seem to help but the pain often radiates to other parts of the head. I do have a swelling on the left side of my neck which my physician said was not serious.

Answer: Hi, I have gone through your medical history carefully and can say as following


Question: A friend went to the emergency room this past Monday morning with severe flu-like symptoms. On Thursday, she was diagnosed with meningitis. On Friday afternoon, it was determined to be viral, and she was rereleased with instructions to stay home and rest for 1 week. Yesterday she was beginning to feel better, but is not feeling as well today as yesterday. Is this fall back today a normal part of the recovery process, or Is it a sign of a possible relapse? Should she perhaps be gotten back to the hospitals? Thanks for your time.

Answer: Hellos you mentioned that your friend is having meningitis (virus, causative organism) . Doctor discharged your patient from hospital because this is self limiting due to antigen antibodies (maybe the type of such virus, that's why patient discharged). So this tiredness is an in recovery phase, if fever is not present then , need not worry. So be careful, take care good nourished diet as well complete rest but remain contact with doctor.


Question: Hello, my wife has been dealing with left leg pain and weakness for the past 15 years. Recently my wife developed left arm, face and tongue weakness and numbness. She was diagnosed with a 5mm Chiari malformation and was given steroids to relieve migraines. After seeing a neurosurgeon she was told she was ineligible for surgery and has been told that she may be making up the symptoms in her head. We don t believe that, basically her left leg, arm and now face experiences pain and weakness and we have no idea why. She was tested for MS but with no lesions and multiple side symptoms that was rules out. Any advice you can provide would be appreciated.

Answer: Hello! Thank you for asking on Chat Doctor ! I read carefully your question and understand your concern. Coming to this point, I would recommend performing a cervico-thoracic spine MRI study to exclude possible syringomyelia, which could cause her symptoms. This is a common complication of Chary Malformation. Anyway, it would not explain the numbness in her face or tongue. Another option would be starting an antidepressant, especially considering the fact they she suffered from migraines. These Chat Doctor.  Hope you will find this answer helpful! Best wishes,


Question: What does this mean, Delayed planar images demonstrate mild uptake within the left L4-L5 region.SPECT -CT of the lumbar spine was obtained. This demonstrates no evidence of disc uptake however, there is very mild facet uptake at L4-L5 on the left. Hypertrophic facet degenerative changes seen in the region on nondiagnostic CT.

Answer: Hi, Thanks for writing in. The uptake seen at L4 - L5 with hypertrophic facet changes are indicative of degeneration because of aging. Such changes occur with age and can cause mild lower back pain and spasm of muscles. A pinched nerve can also arise from this condition. You must consult a neurologist and probably also get a lumbar spine MRI scan done to know if there is a disc herniation or nerve impingement which is not seen clearly on SPENT CT should you experience severe pain in the region. It is important to know why you got a spent CT done and if it is related to any cancerous condition for which you are taking treatment. There is no serious concern for the above findings.


Question: I recently found out that I was pregnant, I told my boyfriend about it.  He always jokes about me getting pregnant so was not expecting his answer.  He wants me to have an abortion.  I went through the consultation for the abortion and just strongly disagree with it.  I told him about this feeling and continually have nightmares about it.  He does not want to hear this and is gong ho about this abortion.  I feel even if it was an accident why are we killing this baby, it was not its fault it was conceived and now i feel its my job to protect it but I am scared about just up and leaving, he has threatened that if i leave he will find me and take my baby that he does not want and raise it with his ex.  what should I do

Answer: Degree understand your concerns went through your details. I suggest you not to worry much.  The cause of your fear is due to conflict of opinion. That is normal. Also, you have a good human view point towards this issue. But you must also understand your husbands view. He could be compelling you to abort because of some compelling issues. Talk to him about this. Understand his feelings and points. Do not argue. Arguments always provides no result. Discuss. Discussions always produce results, decisions. Psychotherapy techniques should suit your requirement. If you require more of my help in this aspect, Please post a direct question to me in this URL. http


Question: I fell approx. 9 years ago on my coccyx. I now have pain from coccyx area that radiates to both hips when I walk. It happens if I am up on my feet all day, but stops when I sit down. I have spoken to my doctor, but he thinks it may be weak stomach muscles. What is your opinion? Thank you. I am 62 years old.

Answer: Hello! Welcome on Chat Doctor ! Your symptoms could be related to a pinched nerve in this region (also called neuralgia), or a bulging disc in the vertebral column, probably due to the trauma. For this reason, I would recommend consulting with a neurologist and performing a CT scan of the lumbosacral spine, coupled with a nerve conduction study. You should discuss with your doctor on the above issues. Kind regards,


Question: Hi..my baby is one month old...he cries a lot at night...sumtimes he s inconsolable...he s on breastfeed n top feed..we burp him regularly Aftr every Feed...still he cries a lot..we hav been suggested by our friends to give neopeptine as a mild dose n colicaid only if necessary ..wht do you suggest ...our doctor refused. Us fr any medicine.

Answer: Hi.... Your doctor is 100% right. I, too, do not suggest any medicine. I will give an explanation why so... This is called evening colic and is quite common in this age group. This happens when the baby sucks at the breast very fast and in eagerness to Chat Doctor.  Unless the air comes out like burping or flatus this discomfort will be there. Next time check if she is sucking too fast and gulping in air too. You will be more convinced. Usually I don't advice any medicines for this as they give only temporary relief. The two best ways to relieve this distress is - 1. Do not put her in lying position after feeding till she burps out the swallowed air.2. If she is still crying - put her in prone position and keep patting her back gently so that she passes off the flatus and gets relieved. Regards -


Question: Hi, one of the bumps right at the back of my tongue (lingual tonsil area) is a yellowy  colour, not pink like the rest.i was looking because i have a bug at the moment and a congested throat/nose...now i am manically googling tumors! Any idea what it could be?

Answer: Hi. Welcome to Chat Doctor. I read your query. In tongue there are naturally larger taste buds at the back of tongue as compared to front. Also, there is lingual papillae As you mentioned you have an infection, chances are it could be an enlarged taste bud or papillae due to infection, medication or some allergy. It can also be an ulcer. Normally This happens with fever and infection and regress on their own. I suggest you to check if it is discolored, enlarge or have uneven borders, then get it checked. Else you can wait for healing up of your infection. Take your prescribed medications. Take multivitamin tablet one per day. Maintain God oral hygiene. If warm water is tolerated, do warm saline rinses. Maintain good diet and HY Chat Doctor.  If it burns while eating, you can apply oral anesthetic gel 5 min before eating. Hope the answer helps you. Thank you!


Question: My husband suffered a stroke in Oct 2016. In the beginning his attitude was bad, he cussed at the nurses and physically fought with them, when he was in a acute hospital the Dr gave him Ridlin it helped, then he was transferred to a skilled nurses rehab place. The Dr there gave him SEROQUEL, he is better but looks and is tired and the therapist say he is sleepy and I don t think he gets a good session. The state of Ca will no let them use RIDLIN. Help! he is coming home and I would like a better mood med. Judie Denney

Answer: Hi and thanks for question. Many times we see that person with stroke will present with behavior disturbance.it is mainly due to lost control over emotion and due to disorientation. So during that time sedative will give for treatment. you are very much anxious regarding how u controlled when he will come home.I suggest u to continue Seroquel. If he has leg pain along with he has salivation more than prior than consult psychiatrist nearby u.


Question: I feel fine in the morning and all day but for the last two days I have been getting very dizzy at the end of the day, around 4

Answer: Hello, If this is only a symptom that has been happening for the past 2 days I would recommend you increase your fluid intake for the next several days using pure and fresh WATER.  I would cut out caffeine and caffeinated beverages.  Make sure you've been getting plenty of rest and I believe you should start feeling better.  You say you haven't changed your eating patterns but do you eat your meals on time or do you skip depending on the need at school or at work?  Otherwise, if your symptoms are not self-limited over the next day or 2 you may wish to schedule an appointment with your doctor for an examination and some laboratory analyses to check on things such as electrolyte disturbances, blood counts that may point to anemia or infection, etc. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further. Take care Chat Doctor.


Question: I have had severe lower back pain around L-5 on my left side. I have been on meds 400 ml ibuprofin for approx. 1 year, now the pain has traveled down my left leg and I have had to increase the meds as needed. Aprox. 5 years ago i fell down a small flight of stairs with approx. 25 lbs in hand. I struck the last step on the right side of my buttox which caused an enormous contusion superficially. However, I have had lasting pain in the area but no one has been able to identify the source. I believe that the injury on the right side has eventually caused the continuous pain on the left

Answer: Hi, I had gone through your question and understand your concerns. Pain traveling down your leg and increasing in intensity means advancing of disease. In this case most probably there is herniated disc disease, so I suggest you to consult a Neurologist and to discuss the possibility of imaging study of your lumbar spine. Since there has been trauma you'll need plain radiographs and MRI imaging. Treatment modalities should become clear after this. Hope this answers your question. If you have additional questions or follow-up questions then please do not hesitate in writing to us. I will be happy to answer your questions.


Question: My Son persuing Engg course is 22 years now was suffering a few years back from low confidence, fear,  self defeat, thinks all are talking about him had recovered, now is back in same mental frame, has confusion, indecision, weird feelings like his pennis is small, shrinking & may severe off, please help

Answer: Degree understand your concerns went through your details. I suggest you not to worry much. Low self-confidence, low self-esteem, confusion, indecision, weird feelings etc. are by products of misunderstanding life. He needs to see a psychological counselor who shall be able to impart self-confidence to your son and make him aware of what he is and what he is capable of. Please consult a psychological counselor. If you require more of my help in this aspect, Please post a direct question to me in this website. Make sure that you include every minute details possible. I shall prescribe the needed psychotherapy techniques which should help you cure your condition further. Hope this answers your query. Available for further clarifications. Good luck.


Question: I have been very anxious the last couple days and my heart rate has been high. It has been over 130bpm at some points and then as low as 80 when I am relaxed. I have panic attacks but usually my heart rate does not get that high. Could his be dangerous?

Answer: ! I have read your question carefully and from that I can say from my clinical experience that the heart rate increases due to stress. However, as you are very concerned, it will help you to get an ECG done, and blood pressure checked. Once these turn to be normal, I think you must meet a psychiatrist and get a detailed evaluation done. Only After listening yo your problem and your current status one can decide the line of management. I have seen that such ceases respond greatly to paroxetine in a dose of 12.5 to 37.5 mg daily.  The doctor may ask you for therapy, which I think will give additional benefit and help you control some part of anxiety and stress. Hope the reply is helpful feel free to ask more questions Chat Doctor.


Question: hi,,,,,i am 32 years old woman....trying to conceive from last 1 year.....got the follicular study done couple of times and was found ok....now my doc has referred me for iui....please let me know what could be the reason for not conceiving after every thing being normal.... my hsg test was also normal..

Answer: Hi, Welcome to Chat Doctor. I am Chat Doctor. I will be answering your concerns. Among couples trying for pregnancy, 80% of them conceive in the first year and 90% by the end of second year. So don't be worried. You will conceive. Since your doctor has already started treatment I presume that all baseline infertility investigations including semen analysis are normal. Then this is called as unexplained infertility. The cause cannot be found with available investigations. What your doctor has done is right step. Have GUI after induction of ovulation with Gonadotrophin. You can have 3-4 cycles of GUI. I hope and pray you conceive with the help of GUI. If you do not get pregnant with this treatment, the next option would be IVF (in vitro fertilization). I hope this is helpful. If you have further concerns, do contact me through Chat Doctor. To increase your chances of conception maintain normal BMI, quit smoking (if you're a smoker) and have intercourse at least three times in a week. I hope this is helpful. If you have any further concerns do contact me through Chat Doctor.


Question: I have pain in my left arm,feels like muscle when I rotate my arm to the right and lift up its sharp. Shoveling snow today didn t help and now its a steady throb. not sure if a xray will help or if I m going to have to have a mri . it s been going on for at least a month or longer.

Answer: hello must attend an orthopedic clinic for proper examination and investigations.it could be supraspinatus tendinitis or biceps tendinitis (inflammation of tendons which attach muscle to bone) or even shoulder joint problem. Do hot fomentation and take Advil tabs after meals thrice a day and rest arm in a broad shoulder-arm sling till you attend orthopedics clinic. A weeks rest to 10 days would be good in sling along with medicines. The final treatment can be decided after examination and X-rays if necessary, MRI, if needed only thanks


Question: My mother in law is in remission from limited stage small cell lung cancer and she wants a partial hip replacement. Her doctors gave her clearance for the surgery but I m afraid she won t heal well. will this surgery possibly cause her to relapse with cancer due to stress on her body?

Answer: Thanks for your question on Chat Doctor. In my opinion you should not worry about relapse. Partial hip replacement is done under spinal anesthesia and stress level and risk both are less than general anesthesia. And doctors have declared her fit for surgery means she is able to cope up with the surgical stress. So no need to worry about relapse. Get done surgery. And continue her chemotherapy cycles as per schedule.


Question: I m looking at the effects of low blood pressure starting the day 97/61 with a heart beat of 64. Movement to cerebral biofeed through oxygenated hike in the trails of autumn under rainy and 10 degrees conditions. What I find consistent is; only after a sweated workout do I sense the pathological pain pressures of the left parietal quadrant; that quadrant is completely separated and pain in persistent. The reason for the workout is for picking up the chi energy of the 4 oclock cycle.

Answer: Hello! Welcome on Chat Doctor! Regarding your concern, I would explain that low blood pressure can be associated to different symptoms


Question: Dear Dr Candan. I would like to ask you you how you read the following values for my semen? How is the potential for using these values of semen to make an egg pregnant

Answer: Hello and welcome to Chat Doctor The analysis for your semen is as follows


Question: Had blood tests and ultrasound done for abd pain - found nothing. Have now got it into my head that I have hodgins disease because i am also slightly itchy

Answer: Hello. Welcome to Chat Doctor, You are presuming a big ailment for no obvious reason at all. The common symptoms of Hodgkin's disease are generalized lymph node enlargement, may be weight loss and hepatosplenomegaly. It has to be proved by special tests like immunohistochemistry on biopsy samples. Itching is totally unrelated to this. If you had homeostasis causing itching, it would have been detected by ultrasound. It would be helpful to have a gastroenterologist work up with endoscopy if the pain is too much and tests like those for typhoid etc. Take care.


Question: dear sir/mam, i had my last period on 28th dec 2010, till now i didnt get periods, i undergone pregnancy test its negative, so my dr referred me take meprate 10 mg now i m takiing , last two days i m getting guiltiness and i felt may be am i pregnancy?

Answer: Hello dear, I understand your concern. In my opinion giddiness alone might not suggest pregnancy. The pregnancy symptoms like nausea, vomitings, increased urination, sore breasts, giddiness,tiredness might be there with positive urine pregnancy test. Meprate tablets are given for with Chat Doctor. Also, the pregnancy test is negative. The giddiness might be due to weakness.Don't worry. Take healthy nutritional diet. If irregular periods continue get evaluated for thyroid abnormalities, PCOD. Avoid stress. Stress, overweight, obesity might also cause irregular periods. So relax. Best regards....


Question: I had a severe allergic reaction to an ant bite about a week and a half ago. Blood pressure dropped to 70/63 and was rushed to the ER and was given loads of Benadryl, went through 2 bags of fluid and had to be put on oxygen. I m still very tired though, I have this running exhaustion feeling. My question is- how long is this supposed to last? Is it normal for me to be feeling so tired?

Answer: Hi, see allergic reaction can be immediate, late and/or delayed from which the later can be last for more than 2 days, so u might have delayed hypersensitivity/Allergic reaction due to ant bite. If this problem remains even after few weeks and u still feel exhaustion or tired then there will be some other cause.u need to see your physician for correct diagnosis but don't worry nothing serious, u will be alright.


Question: My 13 year old daughter has what appears to be her lower left side rib sticking out.Like a lump where last rib would normally be. She has had it for a few months and it seems to be getting worse. (Sticking out more).She says it is a little tender. She is about 25lbs passed her goal wieght.

Answer: Dear Friend. Hi, I am Chat Doctor, I have read your query in detail, I understand your concern. I feel that requires evaluation, that swelling can arise from bone, or it can be soft tissue swelling. You should get her a X-ray Chest, Ultrasound of that area, and if required a FNAC or Biopsy might be required. This is my personal opinion based on details available here.  If you want to discuss your issues further, you may please ask stay Healthy. Chat Doctor, MD


Question: Hi, my daughter has super ventricular Tachycarida. She gets really short of breath when just taking the stairs at school so she used to use an elevator key, but the school took it away. Is there anything that she can do to help her breathing at school and at home?

Answer: Hello, Usually supraventricular tachycardia is usually episodic in nature and will not cause persistent shortness of breath.  First thing is that, the type of supraventricular tachycardia should be determined. So get one ECG done and upload it or show it to local doctor. If she is having persistent type of supraventricular tachycardia like atrial fibrillation then only it can cause this type of symptoms. For this rate control Chat Doctor.  Secondly we need to find for another cause, for that she'll need echo, hemoglobin testing.  In general, she should have salt and fluid including water tea milk coffee etc. restriction to minimum. Very good medicine are available so you either upload her reports or visit local doctor. She'll medicine like metoprolol, horsehide etc.


Question: thankz doc vel i hav an allergy from last five years ma lyf z like hell could u plz sugest how ma swellin vil go bcoz sometime i hav severe headache breathin problem chest congesion ma complexion z gettin dark plz sugest ma nose vz very pointed nw d adenoisz r grown plz recommend somethin n ur num

Answer: Brief Answer


Question: Hi how are you doing? I have a question about my health, I just went to a doctor this afternoon and he found out that I have a h pilori desease, just wondering it can be detect where I might get this? My employer has this kind of desease, is it possible that she gave this to me?

Answer: Hello, Welcome to ChatDoctorH. Pylori is a spiral-shaped bacterium present in the stomach of persons. It is commonly transmitted person-to-person by saliva. It can also be spread by fecal contamination of food or water. Crowded conditions and poor hygiene contributes to higher H. pylori prevalence. H. pylori enters the body through the mouth, moves through the digestive system, and infects the stomach or the first part of the small intestine. More than 80% of people will be asymptomatic. But infected individuals are prone to get peptic disease. Hope you are happy with the answer. Thank you


Question: Several weeks ago, I treated myself with over the counter meds for what I thought was a nasty yeast infection.  Then, the following week, my husband complained of itching and a red rash in and on his genitals, but he didnt do/take anything and it went away.  Now, I have what I think is a yeast infection again.  Could we be passing a yeast infection or something else back and forth?  What can I do to make this go away?  I have endometriosis.  Am I more likely to just get lots of yeast infections?

Answer: Hello, Welcome to Chat Doctor, Fungal infection is most common in the area around genitals and the fungus are the normal comedians of the genitals which are kept under control by the helpful organisms, whenever there is an imbalance in the environment it will lead to multiplication and growth of the fungus in this area. The fungus can sustain for longer duration of time in the wet and moist areas, it is most common in females compared to males as the urethra is short. I would suggest you to follow1. Keep the area clean and Chat Doctor. Topical antifungal cream3. Oral antihistaminesThese medications will help to control the fungal infection. Thank you.


Question: Hi Doctor, I 36 year old male India, suffering from  amobasis since last 17 years. I taken lot of antiboitec but it is not full cure. Now i am toomuch frustarated and i dont want to take any english medicine. If you have any herbal medicine i can take forever to avoid this bloody amobasis. Please help me doctor.

Answer: Hi Welcome to ChatDoctorI Have gone through your query regarding your17 years of amoebas It is after OC great concern. I want to know what all symptoms you face , and for how much time they carry on ? Individuals with weakened immune systems are at a higher risk of amoebas. Conditions such as cancer, malnutrition and old age can contribute to suppressed immunity. Normally seen symptoms are, Sudden weight loss Abdominal cramping & painNausea, Loss of appetite, Flatulence , Tiredness , Dehy Chat Doctor. Treatment also includes certain medications which help to destroy the parasites. These may lead to some side effects such as nausea and a metallic taste in the mouth. Medications to treat diarrhea may also be prescribed. It is important to


Question: I was diagnosed with scoliosis when i was in middle school. I am now 23. I have days when my back hurts all day. I work as a nursing assistant. I have a back brace that i bought. Its not a medical brace just a ordinary brace. Do i need to follow up and have it rechecked since its been a while since a doctor last looked at my back.

Answer: Dear-thanks for using our service and will give you my medical advice. It is important to have a follow-up of your scoliosis with an orthopedic. This is a condition that can get worse and give you more symptoms as you get older. You n\u00e9e a medical brace, one that has been made for your specific measurements and support. This is something that will avoid getting worse and will relieve the pain. I hope that my advice has been helpful Chat Doctor.


Question: I FEEL SURE MY HUSBAND HAS HAD AND IS STILL HAVING MINI STROKES. WE HAVE HAD EVERY TEST DONE THAT THE DOCTOR ASK, THE LAST THING SUGGESTED WAS ANOTHER MRI OF HIS BRAIN BUT IT HAS NOT BEEN SCHEDULED YET. WHAT SHOULD I DO AND HOW SOON IS IT NECESSARY. HE CANNOT WALK HIS LEFT LEG IS NUMB AND HE IS HAVING TROUBLE KNOWING WHEN HE IS USING THE BATHROOM, BOTH URINATING AND BOWEL MOVEMENTS. HE STAYS CONFUSED ALL THE TIME .

Answer: Hello, Sorry for your distress. The confusion is a sign of a problem with the brain. The leg numbness and bathroom problems can be due to a problem in the brain or spine. A condition which may tie all these in is known as normal pressure HY Chat Doctor. An MRI of the brain should be able to identify this condition and I would advise you to get that done. The MRI of the brain is also a good way to check for stroke. All the best.


Question: hello, i am a female, 52 years of age. recently i have bump my arm against a door nob and a large bump appeared on my forearm. a few days later, i happen to hit my hand and yet a bigger bump appeared where i had banged myself. both of these on my same left hand/arm. i am not sure how to make it go away and its not brused, black & blue nor does it hurt... please give me some advise. thank you

Answer: Hi! Good evening. I am Chat Doctor answering your query. From the history it seems to be a hematoma (collection of blood) in subcutaneous tissues due to some minor bleeding by the trauma. If I were your doctor, I would apply a pressure Chat Doctor. I hope this information would help you in discussing with your family physician/treating doctor in further management of your problem. Please do not hesitate to ask in case of any further doubts. Thanks for choosing Chat Doctor to clear doubts on your health problems. I wish you an early recovery. Chat Doctor.


Question: Hi! I injured my knee at a football game 2 days ago, mechanism of injury=I kept falling on my knees,high impact. No instant swelling that I noted (adrenalin) but did feel pain, I admit I kept playing so did weightbear after falls..first fall of significance in first half. Knee started to stiffen up and get more painful towards end of match, knee noticeably swelling and real discomfort on car home and painful to sleep, ache walking and stairs or kneeling painful...used price technique straight away..iced it straight away, tubrigrip compression and elevated..knee now feels better..widespread bruising tender on palpation of joint line/bruises, knee not as stiff but still an ache at end range flexion swelling has reduced. I think when the bruising goes the dull ache in my knee should go too, I feel I dont need physio or medical intervention as its only been 3 days since injury and to let healing process take its course? Am I foolish or should I check if ligaments/cartilage isnt Injured even though the symptoms/mechanism don t match? Thanks

Answer: Hello, I have studied your case. As per your history there is possibility of soft tissue injury in knee. Most commonly meniscus injury occurs may be associated collateral ligament injury. If pain persists then you may need to do MRI knee to see for any functional defect. As per your symptoms you need to do physiotherapy and knee exercises to improve range of motion. Rest and ice fomentation along with supportive brace will help to reduce swelling and pain. Small meniscus tear can be managed conservatively with physiotherapy with USG and TENS. Meniscus injury can be managed by arthroscopic repair. Hope this answers your query. If you have additional questions or follow-up queries then please do not hesitate in writing to us. I will be happy to answer your queries. Wishing you good health. Take care.


Question: Im 20 male, 164cm, 53kg. i have sinus on one side, have motion sickness, have more hair fall thn normal but no bald sign. i have 2 prob

Answer: Degree understand your concerns went through your details. I suggest you not to worry much. You should not take self medicines for any health problems. Consult a physician for diagnosis and treatment. Your first continuous cold related condition should be related to allergens and the second one due to stomach and digestion related problems. Please consult a physician for clear outlook. You also might be interested to know that anxiety and obsession and preoccupation with non-present-symptoms can also manifest such symptoms. For such a case, you need to consult a psychologist. If you still need my help, please describe the whole problem in detail and post a direct question to me. I shall definitely help you with psychotherapy techniques to overcome your problems. Hope this answers your query. Available for further clarifications. Good luck.


Question: Hi im george. Ive been having pain inbetween my collarbones and shoulder blade where it meets my neck... I am nearly 25 years old male. It started about 6 months ago and only occurred when breathing in whilst walking up a very large hill near my house. Over the past few days its doing it when relaxed, driving doing anything. Today i have noticed my chest is heavy and just now i noticed my right ear feels a little like ive been on an aeroplane... Please help

Answer: Hi Dear, Welcome to Chat Doctor. Understanding your concern. As per your query you have pain in between collarbones and shoulder blade while breathing in. Well there can be many reasons for symptoms you mention in query like muscle spasm, cervical spondylosis, cervical radiculopathy or working in one pose for long time. I would suggest you to apply warm compresses on neck and on shoulder blades, do not sit in one pose for long time and take ibuprofen or acetaminophen for pain. If condition doesn't get well then consult orthopedic surgeon for proper examination. Doctor may order CT scan or MRI to confirm the diagnosis. Doctor may prescribe muscle relaxant along with anti-inflammatory and vitamin supplement for quick recovery. Hope your concern has been resolved. Get Well Soon. Best Wishes,


Question: I had a panic attack earlier today and had trouble catching me breath. I m ok as long as I sit still if I do any type of physical activity even as easy as carrying groceries I can feel a slight shortness of breath. My wife.Is currently suffering from bronchitis I m not sure if this a symptom that I may have the same thing

Answer: Thanks for your question on Chat Doctor. I can understand your concern. Stress, anxiety and panic attacks itself cause breathlessness. So no need to worry about bronchitis. Consult psychiatrist and get done counselling sessions. Try to identify stressor in your life and start working on its solution. You may need anxiolytic Chat Doctor. Don't worry, you will be alright with all these. Avoid stress and tension, be relaxed and calm. Hope I have solved your query. I will be happy to help you further. Wish you good health. Thanks.


Question: my friend has been suffering from fever for 15 days...tests for typhoid n malaria negative...fever occurs at night with shivering...almost normal during daytime...blood tests show 19500 leukocyte count and neutrophil count at 88...what should be done...doctors at a loss

Answer: Dear friend you certainly seem to be having an infection or in rare cases chronic myeloid leukemia. If nothing else a leukemia reaction from an infection, but your white cell count does reach the lower limits of CML range. You also need to rule out a lung infection or an Please discuss these possibilities with your doctor and before a diagnosis is made please request for a peripheral smear to be examined by a haemato-pathologist to at least screen for CML


Question: I m a type 2 diabetic. My doctor changed my meds to three pills 5 months ago, Metformin gave extreme gastro side effects. So I have been taking Januvia, Glimeperide and Glipezide. It kept my blood sugar much lower but not perfect. I had 3 episodes of symptoms of low blood sugar but I never got a reading lower than 80. Now my pharmacists has questioned the 3 medication so, as of 3 weeks ago I no longer take Glimeperide. Now I m having mild pressure in my abdomen and sternem, shallow breathing and muscle tension for no reason. Any thoughts?

Answer: Hi sir. Usually diabetic medicines with metformin may cause abdominal problems like gastritis, ulcer.make sure that your sugar level is under control especially HE a1c is under control. Pain in lower abdomen and sternum is exactly due to gastritis so it's better to take anti ulcer medicines to solve this problem avoid taking oily and spicy foods avoid taking tea coffee or milk avoid some vegetables like radish cabbage and cauliflower so that it may help to reduce gastritis. Consult a physician for medications, thank you.


Question: i have a rash on the inside of my bicep and it just so happens it is over the area where i had my implanon implanted. i had it implanted 8 months ago and am just now getting the rash and it looks a lot like the pupps rash i had on my stomach when i was pregnant. i don t know if it is related but i figured i would add that in.

Answer: Hello.thanks for sharing your query Since it is already 8 months since the insertion was done, I won't think that the Implant should be a cause of the rashes you have. You may apply a mild topical steroid for 3-4 days to see if it improves. If you have itching, oral anti histamines may be taken. However, if your lesions persist, you must visit a dermatologist.PUPPY rash is a pregnancy related condition and resolves mostly within a week of delivery. A few women continue to experience symptoms into the postpartum period, but I think this not be related to the present symptoms. Hope this is helpful. Take care.


Question: I am 18 years old. I got my period on October 15th and had unprotected sex on October 27th. On October 28th I took plan b. I am on birth control but took it at different times (within a few hours) the few days leading up to October 27th. (8 pm one day, 11

Answer: Hi, Thanks for using Chat Doctor. Contraceptive pills need to be taken regularly at fixed time. As you have taken pill daily but at irregular time, still It's effective in controlling ovulation. Not to worry. If at all you miss your periods get pregnancy test done. Try to take pill at a regular time daily, If you find it difficult to take regularly better to go for other methods of contraception. Hope this helps regards


Question: I had sex with my gf last night, I had no groin pain and my sperm looked normal, today we had intercourse again and my right side above my penis near my bladder hurts and my right testical, also my sperm was dark yellow. What could this be? Please help.

Answer: Thanks for asking in Chat Doctor forum Pain might have occurred due to muscle pull/stretch during the intercourse/ blunt injury unknowingly during the act.  So, Muscle relaxant with a painkiller will help you a lot.  Regarding your color of semen, it sometimes varies normally & during infection. So, please for semen analysis if you have any doubts or any symptoms like burning sensation/frequency/pain while urinating.  All the best.


Question: Hi, I have been diagnosed with degenerative disc disease since about age 15, I am now 48 years old. My lumbar all the way down through sacral has been fused. I have constant pain in right foot/toes that I have been able to control for about 7 to 8 years, but now pain is getting worse in back above fusion and in the front below belly button. I am wondering if I may now have an issue at T-12 ? I am a male if that makes any difference.

Answer: Hi, Thanks for writing in. The spine is made up of an alignment of small bones. These bones have sponge like discs between them and the spinal cord passes along the back of these bones through the spinal canal. There might be pressure on the discs in the dorsal and lumbar spine and this is causing slight pressure on the spinal canal at a particular level and causing pinching of nerve roots leading to severe pain in the area supplied by the nerve. The disc problem which had involved the T 12 - L 1 disc might have affected the discs at other levels also. Besides, you also have fused vertebrae at lumbar levels. As your symptoms are on the right it is possible that the nerve roots on the right side are affected. You require to be examined a neurologist and an MRI of the dorsal and lumbar spine if indicated to know if the nerve are under pressure and the location. There are patients who get relief by doing physiotherapy and taking neurogenic pain relievers. Injections are also given for relief. However, this might not always happen. If your pain is severe and not responding to medical treatment then the disc protrusion needs to be removed by doing a small surgery at the cervical neck region. Presently, laser assisted surgical techniques are also available. If the pain is mild then it appears to be a minor problem that is treatable. Please do not worry.


Question: I am on Subutex , Neurontin , Remeron and Zoloft , Plus Klonopin , Plus I am on Synthroid , and Also 2 Blood Pressure pills , I Still Suffer with Depression and Anxiety , My Blood Work says I am Healthy , But Mentally I am Tired but Still anxious , I know this is A lot of Meds to be on , I feel as Though I am Hooked on these Meds now , I went into a Detox 8 Months ago to get off Morphine Sulfate and Hydrocodone , Came out on all these Meds..

Answer: Hello, Thanks for choosing Chat Doctor for posting your query. I have gone through your question in detail and I can understand what you are going through. You may try other antidepressants as well as bupropion or venlafaxine or venlafaxine.etc. Hope I am able to answer your concerns. If you have any further query, I would be glad to help you. In future if you wish to contact me directly, you can use the below-mentioned link


Question: Had a gaulbladder operation on the 11th May 2011 came out on the 12th stiches on the 20th May 2011.  The same night i was addmitted back to hospital i was there for 4 days i was told i have a built up of blood where the drain came out.  Before i came out they took a scan they said it was all right but i was still in alot of pain and feel quite ill they told me to see my doctor so  after a week  i did so he put me on  two courses of antibiotics one was 400 mg the other 375 mg for two  weekes.  After two  i had a rest to see if it was any better but it is still the same, i went back to see the doctor today and he send through to get me a scan  as soon aspossible can you give me any advice be very grateful thank you .

Answer: Hi and welcome to Chat Doctor. Thank you for your query. I am Chat Doctor, I understand your concerns and I will try to help you as much as I can. This is common complications of gallbladder surgery and may happen if blood vessel is damaged, or it bleeds for the liver bed. You need to do ct scan and check our red blood count in most cases it can be treated without surgery but sometime sit is required do evacuate hematoma and cingulum if antibiotics won't work. I hope I have answered you query. If you have any further questions you can contact us in every time. Kindly regards. Wish you a good health.


Question: I FILL TIRED IN AFTER NOON .MY HEART BEAT IS IN THIS TIME ABOUT 65.MY PRESSURE IS NORMAL.MY AGE IS 60.ECG REPORT IS NORMAL.I ALSO FILL WEAKNESS IN THIS TIME. 15 DAYS AGO 1 EPISODE OF VETIGO FOR F1 MINUTE IS HAPPNE.MY SERUM LDL COLESTEROL IS 136mg/dl.I AM FIT IN MORNING.IN AFTERNOON WHEN I AM IN REST I FILL  SMALL PALPILATIN IN MY CHEST.MY WEIGHT IS SLOWLY LOOSING.WHAT IS MY PROBLEM AND ITS TREATMENT.PLEASE HELP ME.HIGHT IS 172.WEIGHT 59 KG.

Answer: Hi, You need to undergo some examinations, such as ECG, serum glucose, carotid duplex ultrasound. Only after these examinations the right strategy may be found out. Your complaints may be caused by different conditions; heart disease, diabetes mellitus and for the episode of acute dizziness narrowing and blockage of carotid arteries should be excluded by carotid duplex ultrasound. Take fearsome back if you have any further questions


Question: I have undergone IVF treatment mid way my doc stop because i have not responded well with antral follicle got only 2 the rest have not grown to the expected, she had given me regestrone 5mg for 10 days , need to know what would the effect of the tablet any chances of me getting pregnant inbetween , my hub sperm count is less than 2

Answer: Dear user, welcome to Chat Doctor. With a very low sperm count the only way to get pregnant is through intro cytoplasmic sperm injection (CSI). You should try another time with the maximum dose of HMG (450 IU) or try the short antagonist protocol. If you are obese try to optimize your body mass index (BMI). I can help you more if you mention your age, BMI, day 2 FSH and LH, prolactin, TSH and antimullerian hormone (AMH). I wish you good luck and getting pregnant soon.


Question: Hello. I found a lump on the left side of my lower back about 2.5 months ago. It is the size of a dime and is not visible and can only be felt when pressure is applied to the skin. It hasnt grown or changed and is painless to the touch. However, I do have back and leg pain. I am a 22 yr old female. I dont smoke or drink and am relatively healthy. No history of cancer in my family.

Answer: Respected user, hi I evaluated your query thoroughly.* According to the narration, it is most likely to be Lipoma (accumulation of subcutaneous fat) which can give rise to local discomfort but not leg pain which seems to be separate entity than this. Hope this clears your query. Welcome for any further assistance. Thanks for using Chat Doctor .com & giving me an opportunity to assistWishing you happy healthy life ahead. Regards dear take care.


Question: my boyfriends semen is normal looking but has chunky pieces in it jello-like in texture and they stay jello-like they dont melt or anything i know he used to do a lot of drugs before we started dating is it just side effects from smoking crack? (hes been clean for a year and half now) or is it infertility? does he have an STD? cause before we started dating i made him get checked out considering his past and he turned up clean on the tests. he says that his semen has had chunks in it for quite awhile but it kinda conserns me like i dont want to catch anything and i do want to have a child someday

Answer: Hi and welcome to Chat Doctor. Thank you for your query. I am Chat Doctor, I understand your concerns and I will try to help you as much as I can. These symptoms and signs are suggestive of STD especially if there is associated pain, fever, urethral discharge and recent sexual intercourse. So this is the first thing to rule out by doing STD testing. Second, it may be signed of reinfection o urinary stones and some other genital infection, but this is less common. In every case, antibiotic therapy may be required, so test should be done as soon as possible so that appropriate treatment can be started. Till that try to Chat Doctor. I hope I have answered you query. If you have any further questions you can contact us in every time. Kindly regards. Wish you a good health.


Question: Can i nebulize my child 5 year old with clenil compositum and atem together?? I used to nebulize him with simple clenil compositum and normal saline every winter season .. but now his coughing is not going.. he recently started penecillin day before yesterday because his chest infection was not going

Answer: Hello, Short answer


Question: My mother is diabetic, has a mitral valve which needs replaced buy she is not healthy enough for the replacement. She has a pacemaker which she, per examine, is working 89% of the time. For the last three weeks she has been dizzy, very weak and has short term memory loss. Her primary care doctor says to let her be. Am I over reacting

Answer: Hello! Welcome on Chat Doctor! I passed carefully through your question and would explain that her symptoms could be related to low blood flow to the brain. A stroke or a metabolic disorder can not be excluded either. For this reason, I would recommend consulting with her attending doctor for a careful physical exam. Some tests are needed to investigate for the possible underlying causes


Question: I have been dealing with kidney stones since 1979. Recently I was in the emergency for pain from a kidney stone blockage. The ER doc ordered a CT scan to confirm the stone. When the results came back he informed me that I had stones in my liver and my spleen . My questions are

Answer: Hi Linda, Welcome to Chat Doctor. Since you have stones in the kidney, liver and spleen, you will need to do thyroid function tests to rule out hypercalcinosis, which is a condition in which there is above normal levels of calcium in the blood, which can lead to stone formation in various organs. If hypercalcinosis is detected, then it will need to be treated. Liver and spleen stones don't need to be treated. If there are stones in the Gall Bladder and if they are causing problem, then surgical removal of gall bladder is required.  Wish you all the best.


Question: sir,i was effected abdomen TB last Two years , I complete course and last one years i feel ok not any problem and no medician. Now i feel that my abdomen are large size and tight after food but i have no any symtom like no fever, no pain, no lose wts. I dought for again abdomen TB.

Answer: Hi. Thanks for your query. Read your history and understood the problem. It is good that you had been diagnosed and well treated for Tuberculosis of abdomen. Since you were asymptomatic for last year the chances of an active TB of abdomen is remote. The probable causes for belatedness and tightness of your abdomen can be


Question: Hi, may I answer your health queries right now ?  Please type your qHi Doctor I am shri 25 years running. I am 3 years married. My problem is i am unable to get pregnant. Last Year i was pregnant but i had aborrtion in the month of 2.5 , after that i am unable to get pregnant. I have all tests like TORCH TEST (IGGM, IGM), Glucose test, Menstrual blood test taht all ate normal. I a test i have PCOD problem for this problem doc, advised me TABLET BIGOMET SR 500 for 3 months i am taking this tablet and this is my last month for taking this tablet, with this i am taking FOLIC ACID tablets also. please doctor advise me what should i do for get pregnant as soon as possible. Regards shri XXXXXXXXXXuery here...

Answer: Hi, I think you should take some medicines like camphene for the growth of your follicles and track your follicles' growth by repeated ultrasound and when your follicles is more than 17 to 18 mm, take injection for rupturing the follicles.  Be in contact with your husband every 2 to 3 days after your periods stop.  Take progesterone for next 2 weeks. Do a urine pregnancy test at home after that.  Discuss with your doctor regarding this.  The problem in PCs is with ovulation. So, you have to take medicines for ovulation.  Bigoted alone will not help.  Hope I have answered your question. Regards Chat Doctor.


Question: I have a friend that has MS and has to take shots. He took a shot and there was a lot of blood that followed after he took the needle out. I was thinking his blood was too thin.  (I take warfarine and this is why I was concerned) He drinks a lot of Red Bulls drinks too.

Answer: Hi, dear. I have gone through your question. I can understand your concern. You are taking warfarin.  It is oral anticoagulant Chat Doctor.  It prevents clotting of blood.  So it leads to bleeding.  You should test your PT and INR. Hope I have answered your question, if you have doubt then I will be happy to answer. Thanks for using Chat Doctor. Wish you a very good health. Don't forget to click, thank you.


Question: On Friday I started getting the chills and noticed I had a fever of 102+. I took Theraflu thinking it was a flu coming on. However, I kept getting a fever every few hours. On Saturday, I started getting watery diarrhea. Later that night, my fever spiked to 103.3. I still have diarrhea and have to use the bathroom every 2-3 hours. I took a tylenol last night and the fever has not come back yet. However, I still have to keep using the bathroom and it does not seem to be getting better. Is there anything I can do to stop this?

Answer: I warmly Welcome you! Thanks for consulting me at virtual clinic. I have carefully worked through your case, and I can realize your health worries. Being your physician, I assure you not to worry as I will take care all of your medical concerns. I usually prescribe in such cases Rifaximin (Ibadan) 200 mg per oral 8 hourly for 5 days. Use Mediate for revitalization and fulfil the fluid and electrolyte losses. It seems to be due to gastroenteritis due to some unhygienic/raw food. Only Tylenol can not be effective. You may need to go to your Physician for prescription of antibiotics. Hope it helped you today. If you need further, detailed and quick assistance related to any health issues, feel free to ask me a question directly from my profile. You can also attach Lab reports and pictures directly from the question window, or by emailing it to attachments@ChatDoctor .com with the Subject as, Attention


Question: My baby is of two weeks. First week breast feeding was good enough for him however from last couple of days it has reduced a lot. Hence we started feeding lactogen but he vomits it out very frequently. What we are supposed to do to ensure he is being feed properly?

Answer: Thanks for posting on Chat Doctor. Breast milk is the best possible food for a baby and there can be no alternatives for that. Lactose or any other formula, is cow milk based and difficult to digest for the baby. So, in such a condition, the baby often vomits it out. Try not to go for formula feeds and go for breastfeeding as far as you can. You may express your breast milk and store it in a refrigerator before you bring it to the normal temperature and give to the baby. In case of breastfeeding, insert the entire nipple along with the areola (not only the nipple) in the babies mouth. Feed one breast at a time and alternate breasts with each feed. Breast milk is produced as per the demands of the baby as express through the suckling. In case of formula feeding, the hunger of the baby is reduced, and the baby suckles less automatically reducing the amount of breast milk produced. So, reduce formula feeds as far as you can. The adequacy of the feeds would be expressed with the amount of urine passed. Passing urine at least 5-6 times in 24 hours is to be considered adequate. Hope that helps. Feel free to revert with further queries if any.


Question: Hi, I am a 34 year old women, I got sick in December just before Christmas. I went to the doctor 4 times. He told me that I had bronchitus and gave me meds. The cough got better and o did my chest, but I have had a heavy feeling in my chest for about a month now. When I lie down it feels like I have a lump in my Throat. I dont smoke, never have and am not overweight. Can I have Lung cancer? I am really worried

Answer: Hi.it is best if you consult with a doctor if you are experiencing symptoms. The possibilities based from just your description are varied. Most common causes of lung cancer are history of smoking, occupational exposure to chemicals or inhalation agents that could be deposited in lungs, hereditary. Diagnostic studies such as chest x-ray, ct-scan of neck and chest area could easily rule-out if you have lesions. Hope this helps. Good day!!~ Chat Doctor.


Question: Hello Dr. I have been having depression and intrusive thoughts for five years now. Tried Zoloft for two weeks and was very ill with it. Stomach cramps etc. I am afraid of side effects of meds like tolerance after a whole and other issues. I am now quite tired of dealing with this condition naturally. What help can you suggest.

Answer: Hi, I can understand your concern about side effects after using Zoloft (Sertraline). Loose motions, stomach cramps, headache, abdominal discomfort, sleep disturbance are common side effects in initial weeks of treatment with Sertraline. Other better alternatives are reducing the dose of Sertraline or switching to Tablet Mirtazapine or Tablet Venlafaxine with Clonazepam. Kindly discuss with your treating psychiatrist. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further. Wish you rapid recovery.


Question: from since a young age i always had irregular heart beats. eg i was playing football when all of a sudden my heart started beating alot faster than usual, with chest pains on the right and short of breath. i ocassional suffer these attacks even when i sit down. now i regularly get irregular beats, where my chest hurts and at times short of breath from lying down...

Answer: Hi thereafter going through your query I understand your concern. I would like to tell you, palpitations along with shortness of breath is more likely to happen due to cardiac Arrhythmias, and it requires further evaluation to avoid fetal cardiac events. Kindly get your ECG, treadmill test or stress echocardiography done and see a Cardiologist with reports for further management. Hope to have been helpful. Kind Regards Chat Doctor.


Question: I have IDC Left Breast stage 2 HER Positive, 1.5 cm Cancer was removed, 2 lympthnodes removed, they were negative. I have clear margins. Pathology report states I am in Low recurrence catagory returning and the cancer is confined to the left breast only. It was at 1

Answer: Hayes with Chat Doctor.  Some breast cancers are made to grow faster by a natural hormone called estrogen. Anastrozole decreases the amount of estrogen the body makes and helps to slow or reverse the growth of these breast cancers. Hot flashes, headache, trouble sleeping, dizziness, stomach upset, nausea/vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, loss of appetite, weight gain, tiredness/weakness, increased coughing, or sore throat may occur. If any of these effects last or get worse, tell your doctor or pharmacist promptly. Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist your medical history, especially of


Question: Hi,I had Spinal Fusion surgery in  2001.  From then on I maybe 2-3x a year I would get burning pain and inflammation in my feet and hands.  Lately in about  last 5 mos. the occurrences have become more often and in the past month my feet especially have been in pain... standing, seating or even laying in bed( if any part of my feet would be touching the mattress).   They would feel best raised but I could still feel slight burning and stiffness. I dont know if I should go see my back Doctor because that was a on the job injury or my family Doc.Please help....thank you for your assistance.

Answer: Hi, Thank you for posting your query. Your symptoms are suggestive of neuropathic pain. It may benefit to consult your doctor and discuss, as these may be related to your earlier problems. In addition, you may need to do nerve conduction studies to look for peripheral neuropathy. You would benefit from pregabalin capsules. Please get back if you require any additional information. Best wishes, Chat Doctor. Ly/


Question: Recently we moved from S. Fla. to NC and my husband and I have been waking up every day stiff, achy, and barely able to move. Even my hands and feet hurt. We live in a new log home, so it can t be lead paint or old house issues. Any ideas? Wierd that it affects both of us the same way.

Answer: Hello, Sometimes, neurotransmitters in body act differently with changes of places. This may be due to temperature or weather difference of places. Sometimes this can also occur due to excessive fatigue, deny Chat Doctor.  If it is a recent issue then there is no need to worry. Take some times adjust yourself with new place, take adequate fluid and sun exposure. It will go away in 5-7 days. Meanwhile, you may do warm fomentation to relieve stiffness. If there is intolerable pain then you may have Tylenol for relief. Hope I have answered your question. Let me know if I can assist you further.


Question: My 16 year old son has a swollen lymph node behind his ear and recently noticed a lump in his pectoral muscle near the nipple. He also has said he has experienced fatigue during the last few weeks. He is active in baseball so it is difficult to assume if this is all related.

Answer: Hello, I understand your concern. I am Chat Doctor, infectious disease specialist, answering your concern. The most common cause of the swollen lymph node in India is the tuberculosis. I also suspect the same in your child. For the confirmation of the diagnosis it is necessary that you should do FNAC and ZN staining from the material received. If the test is positive you should also do the TB testing by Inexpert, It is also diagnosed the common resistance pattern and can help you in treatment part. TB treatment have many side effects, please do not discontinue the treatment as it can create resistance pattern in the bacilli. Complete treatment only cures you but also prevents future relapse. I will be happy to answer your further concern you can contact me here, or you can contact me on bit.ly/ Chat Doctor.  Thank you, ChatDoctor


Question: My 1 year old has been having 6 to 8 bowel movements a day for almost 2 weeks and has horrible diaper rash. She was treated successfully for thrush a few months ago, but I don t see any obvious white spots in her mouth. Plus, I don t recall her having frequent BMs the last time.

Answer: Hello, Your baby having loose stools for 14 days along with diaper rashes is suggestive of lactose intolerance. It is seen in babies that have some infection in their gut due to difficulty in digesting lactose and sugar in milk; this makes them pass stool with acidic pH which leads to diaper rashes. Apply Silver Mini cream or any zinc oxide cream on the affected area after cleaning the area, each time after passing stool. Get a stool examination for pH levels done; reduce and change milk to a low lactose formula. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.


Question: I have high blood pressure and I was told that my potassium level was low so I bought some potassium gluconate pills today they are 595 mg and I am scared to take them after reading about the side effects. What should I do I have an appt. to see a cardioligist next monday?

Answer: Hi, Thanks for asking. Based on your clinical history and query, my opinion is as follows


Question: hello any OBGYNE doctors or other doctors knows this question pls answer me thanks.. what is the success rate of to prevent pregnancy when using Nordette as ECP ? when took 4pcs within 60 hrs of unprotected sex then 4pcs after 12 hrs of the 1st dosage. thanks

Answer: Hello, Thanks for sharing your health concern with us. I have gone through your query and would like to offer my opinion. The efficacy rate of an emergency contraceptive pill depends on the time delay after the intercourse before the pill is used. When the pill is used soon after, the protection offered is 98-99 % while it decreases as time goes by. At 60 hours, the protection offered is around 80-85 %. Corvette is shown to have the same efficacy as any conventional emergency contraceptive pill. Please contact your health care provider for further help. Hope this helps.


Question: I have had a cold or virus for 10 days now.  I have had a bad cough and alot of sinus problems.  I was coughing up yellowish flim and I called my Dr. and she perscribed antibotics for me I have been on the antibotics for 6 days.  My sinuses seem better but still have a cough but not as bad.  I do smoke maybe 5/day.  How long will my cough last?

Answer: Hi thanks for contacting Chat Doctor... If your cough still not improving than digital chest x-ray and spirometry (pulmonary function test done for further work up)To detect causative organism throat swab or sputum collection done and send for culture report ... According to which Chat Doctor. .... You have smoking habit .... So it can lead more cough production ... It is better if you can get rid of smoking habit ....Meanwhile, if trouble some


Question: Hi, I m trying to conceive and I have been taking ovulation tests and last week I got a positive (smiley face) ovulation test, then negative the next day, then positive the day after that, and today (1 week later) I got a positive again! what does that mean? why could that be hapenning?

Answer: Hallow Dear, This dilemma seems to be either due to error in the kits or personal error. Delayed positive test could be due to exceptional additional delayed ovulation from the other ovary. In such confusion, I would advise you to take the help of ultrasonography. Ultrasonographic ovulation monitoring has an edge over the kit


Question: Family memeber, 85 and living alone, stopped her dialysis; did not have it on scheduled Saturday, talked to her son, Monday evening, then was found she had died in bed later that evening. Blood appeared in and around her mouth. Could you tell me why the blood? I understand she went peacefully.

Answer: Sorry to hear about the demise. In patients undergoing dialysis and having stopped there could be multiple reasons for bleeding. These patients have bleeding tendencies, so she might have bled from any ulcer in stomach or esophagus. Or if due to stopping of the dialysis, she might have developed pulmonary hypertension due to accumulation of excessive fluids in lungs and cause bleeding through lungs which might have surfaced during excessive bought of cough containing blood. These could be the main reasons that I think of from what you have told me in your question. Thank you


Question: Hi, my dad (84) has been diagnosed with another bleed on the left side of his brain. He had an annuryism in the same spot 20 years ago and he had surgery to correct the bleed then. He was left paralyzed on the left side. Because of his age we have opted not to have any surgery as he has been through so much in the last 20 years. He has spent 15 yrs in a nursing home. The ER doctor who saw him told us of this second bleed and also that he will die and that all they can do is keep him comfortable. How long do you think my dad will lie like this? The bleed was found on Wednesday of last week. I just do not want him to suffer and he seems to be resting peacefully and even ackowledging us with a nod of his head occassionally. He is holding his own as far as his lungs and heart goes and is passing the fluids that they are giving him now. The only symptom he had to alert us something was wrong was is low oxygen levels and this is why we had him taken to the hospital. Any info you can give us will be greatly appreciated.

Answer: Hello, You have most of the information that you should know, and you also have absorbed it the way it should have been. Beyond the present supportive care, there is nothing much that may be required for him. A major part of brain his not functioning for him and at such an old age when organ systems start giving in one by one, one can only try to give him peaceful and comfortable existence as long as he pulls on. Good luck.


Question: I am 86 years old and having good health till 4 months back. I got psoriatic Arthratis but it was diagonised late. I lost 4 months and got treated by the doctor with Saaz. But I found it not suitable for me. I lost 2 month for treatment. Now I have been treated with folitrax 15 mg injection and I found it is ok for me. Pl advise how to get strength as I am bed ridden and could not walk properly without support. Also my back joints L4 L5 etc are giving lot of pain. Pl advise remedy.

Answer: Hello, Low back pain in psoriasis arthritis have different origin. This pain is mostly due to increase in inflammation. In your case two factors are playing role one is your disease & other is your inactivity with your age. In my opinion if you are facing severe problem with low back pain then you may ask from your doctor about intermittent course of low dose steroid. This is very helpful in such cases. Your doctor is the sole person to decide its pros and cons in your age. You should continue or start calcium & vitamin D therapy. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further. Take care


Question: hi my lft report range are as follow .Iam bit confused regarding the range serum bilirubin(diazo method).....   .93 mg/dldirect                                               .50indirect                                            .43sgot ifcc method                              93.8 iu/lsgpt                                                 148.5 iu/l

Answer: Hellhole me explain to you that, what is got Sept. In your case serum bilirubin level is normal so need not worry. The aminotransferase is sensitive indicators of LIVER CELL INJURY and are most helpful in recognizing acute hepatocellular disease such as HEPATITIS. They include the aspartame aminotransferase (GOT) and the alpine aminotransfearse (Sept). Sgot is found in liver, cardiac muscle, skeletal muscle, kidney, brain, pancreas, lungs, leukocytes, and erythrocytes in DECREASING disorder of concentration. Sgpt is mainly found in the liver. I want to explain to you that any mild disease or any injury to above-mentioned organs may be responsible for high level of GOT. While primarily Sept is in liver, so any cell injury to liver cells may be responsible for liver disease. But this level is not so high so at present need not worry, if you didn't have any other symptoms. Keep regular watch over liver function tests and symptoms. Besides avoid wine, Chat Doctor. Still if you have any doubt get in MRI and ultrasound of liver. Consult a physician and get his opinion as physical examination is also important. Good luck.


Question: Hello Doc. I am currently taking meloxicam, and was wondering, can I take tylenol for my muscle pain? I take a half of my meloxicam as needed and the last time I took one was this morning. I ve been having muscle pain on my left side about a week now and I am trying determine my pain level. Arlene

Answer: Hello, I have studied your case. Yes you can take Tylenol for muscle pain. Be aware of side effects of Tylenol. Side effects such as dizziness, Chat Doctor.  You can take other opioid analgesic if pain persist for few days. Opioids may have other side effects. Hope this answers your query. If you have additional questions or follow-up queries then please do not hesitate in writing to us. I will be happy to answer your queries. Wishing you good health. Take care


Question: Me and my gf were fooling around i had gotten cum on my to stop from cuming in her after i pulled out. After i washed my hands with soap and water. About an our later we fooled around again. Could she get pregnant even after i washed the cum my hands?

Answer: Hi their have understood your concern. If you had this unprotected sex act in the fertile period of her cycle then she should take emergency contraceptive pills within 72 hours of unprotected sex act. As you might be aware that pre ejaculation fluid contains sperms enough to cause pregnancy. And it gets deposited without you noticing it. So even if you pull out before ejaculation, it is not a safe sex. It is not due to washed hands but due to pull out method, she stands chance to get pregnant. I hope this answer helps you. Thansk.


Question: I had a gastroscopy and was diagnosed with the beginning of stomach ulcers , I was put onto a 2 week course of antibiotics (Moxypen & Klarithran) which I m still taking as well as Topzole, for the last 3 days I have had severe swelling of my ankles and feet and even my eyelids are swollen and I feel flushed all the time, could there be a relation between the symptoms and the medication??

Answer: Hi, Thanks for posting your query. I am Chat Doctor. The swelling you have in the ankles, feet and around the eyelids is not related to the stomach ulcers or the medications you take. Swelling like these occurs due to either heart, liver or kidney diseases. Puffiness around the eyes usually occurs in kidney disease. You need to get tests done to see which of these organs is affected causing the swelling of the ankle, feet and around eyes. I hope that answers your question.


Question: I m on sprintec for few months. I never missed a pill and I always take it on time?But the other day I missed then I took two pills yesterday with one hour in between. Today I took my dose about 2 hours and 10 minutes late. I had sex tonight. Is there any chance to be pregnant? WWW.WWWW.WW

Answer: Hello, Thanks for your query.sprinter is used to prevent ovulation. As you missed one dose and compensated it next day by taking 2 pills. Though you have taken your dose little late but still you have same chances of pregnancy when you use pills promptly/regularly.  So don't worry and read carefully instructions provided with your medicine. If you miss one active pill, take two pills on the day that you remember. Then take one pill per day for the rest of the pack. If you miss two active pills in a row in Week 1 or 2, take two pills per day for two days in a row. Then take one pill per day for the rest of the pack. Use back-up birth control for at least 7 days following the missed pills. Hope it helps. Take care!


Question: i am taking glycomate sr igram at night before meal. my fasting sugar was 150-160 range before medication and PP was 170-180. i have strict diet control. after taking medicine for one & 1/2 months now i am feeling sleepy which i do not had earlier. presently my Fastinf sugar is 129-141 anf PP is 140-150. si do Yoga for i/2 hrs, walking for 20 minutes and Gym foe 15 minutes daily. Should i stop medicine.D .mitra age 55 ,male,kolkata india

Answer: Hi Mr. Mira, As you have not mentioned the duration of your Diabetes specifically, let by your narration my interpretation is you have recently detected Diabetes diabetes approximately one and half month back. You have started on Glycogen Sr 1 gm before dinner, along with you are doing yoga, gym, walk regularly diet control. With all these efforts your blood sugar levels are fairly controlled. I would like to advise_1. Strictly follow Diabetic diet regularly. 2. Continue yoga, gym, walk regularly. 3. Continue Tab Glycogen Sr 1gm after dinner. In fact, you can increase the dose up to 1.5 gm and over another 15 days to 2 gm total per day in divided doses preferred to take after meals. (effective dose is approximately 1.75 gm per day) As this medicine rarely decreases blood sugar levels below normal level (rarely causes hypoglycemia) This medicine act on basic pathology of diabetes called insulin resistance. As Diabetes is lifelong disease, as duration of diabetes increases there may need of additional medicines. 4. You have not mentioned your height and weight so that you should target weight loss according to your height. 5. Certain blood test are important like lipid profile, serum creatinine, HbA1C which denote blood sugar level over period of approximately 120\u00a0days. Urinary protein creatinine ratio, Endoscopy to rule out diabetic retinopathy. 6. You should also start medicine for lowering lipids despite your lipid level, if it is in normal range start in basic dose and if in higher doses according to lipid level. 7. Also, regular BP checking


Question: My mother is having lightheadiness and heart palpitations and sometimes her hear races. This has been over the last few days. She just checked her blood pressure and it is normal and her pulse rate is 72. Could she still have a heart attack with normal blood pressure and pulse rate? Thanks, Kelli

Answer: Hi, Lightheadedness associated with palpitations can be caused by irregularities in heart rhythm.  Heart rate and blood pressure can be normal in these cases, but it is important to know what her heart rhythm is, and what is usually done is an ECG which documents the electrical activity of the heart. It may not be a \"heart attack\" per se, but it is noteworthy that she may undergo tests as part of the work-up.  And I would suggest a consult with a doctor to be able to check other causes of dizziness such as a musculoskeletal problem in the neck, as well as problems in the eyes and ears which may cause dizziness, apart from a problem in the heart. Hope I have answered your query. Let me know if I can assist you further.


Question: I am 27 years old female. I am having right lower abdominal pain for past 2 years. The pain goes away after taking a course of antibiotics but reoccurs after some time. In the beginning the frequency of reoccurance was after 4 to 6 months, but now its occuring again and again within 15 to 20 days. I have the following symptoms. C1)fatigue, Feeling discomfort and tired always2)nausea always. Sensation is more after few minutes of food intake3)severe pain in lower right abdomen4)feeling burning pain in all over the abdomenal area5)Getting constipation for few days and then loose motion for few days Have done abdomincal scan and showed results as1)Left renal stone2)Minimal fluid in cul de sac Have done blood, urine and stool tests and reports showed these1)Haemoglobin is low2)ESR is high - 343)Showed pus cells in stool, occassional and stool is brown in color.4)showed 1-2 leucocytes and 2-3 epithelial cells in urineMenstrual periods  regular(30-32

Answer: Hi ! Good morning. I am Chat Doctor answering your query. From your history, and ultrasound report of fluid in the cul-de-sac, I would suspect you to be having a PID (pelvic inflammatory disease) which might also be associated with a UTI (urinary tract infection), which had to be ruled out by a culture and sensitivity test. If I were your doctor, I after a general physical examination of yours would advise you to get yourself assessed by a gynecologist of your area to rule this out specially if you are sexually active. Till then, I would advise you for a course of broad spectrum antibiotics along with an anti inflammatory and a proton pump inhibitor for a symptomatic relief. I hope this information would help you in discussing with your family physician/treating doctor in further management of your problem. Please do not hesitate to ask in case of any further doubts. Thanks for choosing Chat Doctor to clear doubts on your health problems. I wish you an early recovery. Chat Doctor.


Question: Respected Sir,My name is Nishanth singh gurung. I have undergone a root canal treatment 8 months back. One of my teeths in the bottom section is growing at 70% angle outwards. It is causing a problem in the gums. I always feel some sensitivity there and not able to study properly. Please tell me what i have to do. Its urgent

Answer: Thanks for your query, I have gone through your query. The sensitivity in the tooth can be because of the cervical abrasion(Wearing away of tooth structure) since it is in an abnormal position, more force will be applied when you brush. The other possible cause can be a dental caries in between the teeth. So consult an oral physician and get it evaluated and take a radiograph to confirm the diagnosis. If the tooth is a wisdom tooth, then get it removed. If it is some other tooth, you can get it restored a cement material. I hope my answer will help you, take care.


Question: Hi, I m 38 years old and due to a gun shot through the roof of my mouth.I have worn a partial for years. I m 5 1 amd 91 lbs always been very small child like. I had full dentures put in yesterday and they huge! I m gagging,cant close my mouth,color is very dark,and teeth are like hores teeth. I m horrified. I have called him and he said the will fit when I grow into them. I don t think I m going to be doing anymore of that. What to do? He pulled what 10 teeth I had left now nothing and owe him over 5,000$. Help PLEASE

Answer: Hi, Thank you for the query.  First thing is you cannot wear a denture which is bigger than the size of our palate. Definitely you will have a gag reflex as the over extension of the denture is into the soft palate area leading to gag reflexes. Coming to the growth part, you are already 38yrs old, at this age there won't be any growth in your body parts. Only thing what can be done is asked your dentist to prepare another set of dentures which are of your size not huge and size of the teeth should be reduced, and your occlusion should be checked thoroughly and extensions of the dentures are important so that you won't end up in gag reflexes anymore. Best thing is to see a prosthodontist. Hope this information will help you. Take care.


